Thank you. Thank you so much. I come tonight with a very, very full
heart. And I want especially to thank New Hampshire. Over the last week,
I listened to you and in the process, I found my own voice.

I felt like we all spoke from our hearts, and I am so gratified that you
responded. Now, together, let's give America the kind of comeback that
New Hampshire has just given me.  For all the ups and downs of this
campaign, you helped remind everyone that politics isn't a game. This
campaign is about people. It's about making a difference in your
lives. It's about making sure that everyone in this country has the
opportunity to live up to his or her God-given potential. That has been
the work of my life.

We are facing a moment of so many big challenges. We know we face
challenges here at home, around the world, so many challenges for the
people whose lives I've been privileged to be part of. I've met families
in this state and all over our country who have lost their homes to
foreclosures. Men and women who work day and night but can't pay the
bills and hope they don't get sick because they can't afford health
insurance. Young people who can't afford to go to college to pursue
their dreams.

Too many have been invisible for too long. Well, you are not invisible to me.

The oil companies, the drug companies, the health insurance companies,
the predatory student loan companies have had seven years of a president
who stands up for them. It's time we had a president who stands up for
all of you.

I intend to be that president, to be a president who puts you first -
your lives, your families, your children, your future. I believe deeply
in America, in our can-do spirit, in our ability to meet any challenge
and solve any problem. I believe in what we can do together. In the
future, we will build together. There will be no more invisible
Americans. So we're going to take what we've learned here in New
Hampshire, and we're going to rally on and make our case. We are in it
for the long run.

And that is because we are in it for the American people. This victory
will serve notice that people across our country know what's really at
stake, that we will all be called upon to deliver on the promise of
America.

We'll be called upon to deliver on the promise that the middle class
will grow and prosper again, to deliver on the promise the government
will be of the people, by the people and for the people, not just the
privileged few, to deliver on the promise that every generation will
have their shot at the American dream, to deliver on the promise that
we'll have the will and the wisdom to end the war in Iraq the right way,
to deliver on the promise to take care of our brave veterans and restore
America's standing, respect, and credibility around the world.  We know
that for the promise of America to be real, we are called upon to
deliver on that promise. And if you join in this call to greatness, we
will, together, answer. So tomorrow, we're going to get up, roll up our
sleeves and keep going.

I invite you to come join us at Hillaryclinton.com. We're going to tap
into all of the spirit, the talent and just the plain grit of this great
nation again.

We are determined to tackle our toughest problems and stand up to those
who most need a champion because we are determined to make America work
again for all of our people.  We came back tonight because you spoke
loudly and clearly. You want this campaign to be about you because there
is so much at stake for our country.

I have so many people to thank. I want to thank the two most important
people in my life, Bill and Chelsea. I want to thank them for their
incredible commitment, their passion and their heart. I want to thank my
entire family, particularly my mother, who is watching tonight.

I want to thank the extraordinary team here in New Hampshire that never
faltered one minute. That team had a great staff. It had volunteers and
supporters from across the state and this country. I want to thank the
young people across New Hampshire who came out.  They asked the hard
questions and they voted their hearts and their minds and I really
appreciate it.

Finally, I want to say how much I respect our Democratic
candidates. Senators Dodd and Biden who were in the race earlier have
given great service to our country. Governor Richardson, Congressman
Kucinich, Senator Edwards and Senator Obama.

They all have put themselves on the line day and night on behalf of this
country we love so much.

This campaign will transform America because we will take on the
challenges. We will seize the opportunities. Every single day, I am not
going out there on my own. I am going out there accompanied by millions
and millions of people who believe, as I do, that this country is worth
fighting for.

Thank you, and God bless you!
