15:24 Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain which went out from us
have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must
be circumcised, and keep the law: to whom we gave no such commandment:
15:25 It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send
chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, 15:26 Men that
have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:27 We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you
the same things by mouth.

15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you
no greater burden than these necessary things; 15:29 That ye abstain
from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things
strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye
shall do well. Fare ye well.

15:30 So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they
had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle: 15:31
Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.

15:32 And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted
the brethren with many words, and confirmed them.

15:33 And after they had tarried there a space, they were let go in
peace from the brethren unto the apostles.

15:34 Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.

15:35 Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and
preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.

15:36 And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and
visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of
the LORD, and see how they do.

15:37 And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname
was Mark.

15:38 But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed
from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.

15:39 And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed
asunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto
Cyprus; 15:40 And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended by
the brethren unto the grace of God.

15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.

16:1 Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold, a certain disciple
was there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a
Jewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek: 16:2 Which was well
reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.

16:3 Him would Paul have to go forth with him; and took and
circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters: for
they knew all that his father was a Greek.

16:4 And as they went through the cities, they delivered them the
decrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elders
which were at Jerusalem.

16:5 And so were the churches established in the faith, and increased
in number daily.

16:6 Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of
Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in
Asia, 16:7 After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into
Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.

16:8 And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.

16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man of
Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help
us.

16:10 And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured to
go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for
to preach the gospel unto them.

16:11 Therefore loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to
Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolis; 16:12 And from thence to
Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a
colony: and we were in that city abiding certain days.

16:13 And on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side,
where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the
women which resorted thither.

16:14 And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city
of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord
opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.

16:15 And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us,
saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my
house, and abide there. And she constrained us.

16:16 And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel
possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her
masters much gain by soothsaying: 16:17 The same followed Paul and us,
and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God,
which shew unto us the way of salvation.

16:18 And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and
said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come
out of her.

And he came out the same hour.

16:19 And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone,
they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace unto
the rulers, 16:20 And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These
men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city, 16:21 And teach
customs, which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe,
being Romans.

16:22 And the multitude rose up together against them: and the
magistrates rent off their clothes, and commanded to beat them.

16:23 And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them
into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely: 16:24 Who,
having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and
made their feet fast in the stocks.

16:25 And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto
God: and the prisoners heard them.

16:26 And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the
foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doors
were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.

16:27 And the keeper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, and
seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword, and would have
killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.

16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm:
for we are all here.

16:29 Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and came trembling,
and fell down before Paul and Silas, 16:30 And brought them out, and
said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?  16:31 And they said, Believe
on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.

16:32 And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that
were in his house.

16:33 And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their
stripes; and was baptized, he and all his, straightway.

16:34 And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before
them, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house.

16:35 And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying,
Let those men go.

16:36 And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, The
magistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go in
peace.

16:37 But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned,
being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us
out privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us
out.

16:38 And the serjeants told these words unto the magistrates: and
they feared, when they heard that they were Romans.

16:39 And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and
desired them to depart out of the city.

16:40 And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house of
Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and
departed.

17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they
came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews: 17:2 And
Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days
reasoned with them out of the scriptures, 17:3 Opening and alleging,
that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen again from the dead;
and that this Jesus, whom I preach unto you, is Christ.

17:4 And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul and Silas; and
of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a
few.

17:5 But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them
certain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and
set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and
sought to bring them out to the people.

17:6 And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain
brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned
the world upside down are come hither also; 17:7 Whom Jason hath
received: and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying
that there is another king, one Jesus.

17:8 And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city, when
they heard these things.

17:9 And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, they
let them go.

17:10 And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night
unto Berea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.

17:11 These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they
received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the
scriptures daily, whether those things were so.

17:12 Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women which
were Greeks, and of men, not a few.

17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of
God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and stirred
up the people.

17:14 And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go as it
were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.

17:15 And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: and
receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him
with all speed, they departed.

17:16 Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred
in him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.

17:17 Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and with
the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with
him.

17:18 Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks,
encountered him. And some said, What will this babbler say? other
some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he
preached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.

17:19 And they took him, and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, May
we know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?  17:20 For
thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know
therefore what these things mean.

17:21 (For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent
their time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some new
thing.)  17:22 Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said,
Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too
superstitious.

17:23 For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar
with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye
ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.

17:24 God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he
is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
17:25 Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any
thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; 17:26
And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the
face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and
the bounds of their habitation; 17:27 That they should seek the Lord,
if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far
from every one of us: 17:28 For in him we live, and move, and have our
being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also
his offspring.

17:29 Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to
think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven
by art and man's device.

17:30 And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now
commandeth all men every where to repent: 17:31 Because he hath
appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness
by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance
unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead.

17:32 And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some
mocked: and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter.

17:33 So Paul departed from among them.

17:34 Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among the
which was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and
others with them.

18:1 After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to
Corinth; 18:2 And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus,
lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that
Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto
them.

18:3 And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and
wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.

18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the
Jews and the Greeks.

18:5 And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was
pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was
Christ.

18:6 And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his
raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am
clean; from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.

18:7 And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house,
named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the
synagogue.

18:8 And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the
Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed,
and were baptized.

18:9 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not
afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace: 18:10 For I am with thee,
and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in
this city.

18:11 And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word
of God among them.

18:12 And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made
insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the
judgment seat, 18:13 Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God
contrary to the law.

18:14 And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto
the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews,
reason would that I should bear with you: 18:15 But if it be a
question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I
will be no judge of such matters.

18:16 And he drave them from the judgment seat.

18:17 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the
synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for
none of those things.

18:18 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then
took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with
him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he
had a vow.

18:19 And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself
entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.

18:20 When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he
consented not; 18:21 But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all
means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return
again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.

18:22 And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the
church, he went down to Antioch.

18:23 And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went
over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening
all the disciples.

18:24 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent
man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.

18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being
fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of
the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.

18:26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila
and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto
him the way of God more perfectly.

18:27 And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren
wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come,
helped them much which had believed through grace: 18:28 For he
mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the
scriptures that Jesus was Christ.

19:1 And it came to pass, that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul
having passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and finding
certain disciples, 19:2 He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy
Ghost since ye believed?  And they said unto him, We have not so much
as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.

19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they
said, Unto John's baptism.

19:4 Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of
repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him
which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.

19:5 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord
Jesus.

19:6 And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came
on them; and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.

19:7 And all the men were about twelve.

19:8 And he went into the synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of
three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the
kingdom of God.

19:9 But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil
of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated
the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus.

19:10 And this continued by the space of two years; so that all they
which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and
Greeks.

19:11 And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul: 19:12 So
that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons,
and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of
them.

19:13 Then certain of the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to
call over them which had evil spirits the name of the LORD Jesus,
saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.

19:14 And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the
priests, which did so.

19:15 And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I
know; but who are ye?  19:16 And the man in whom the evil spirit was
leaped on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that
they fled out of that house naked and wounded.

19:17 And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks also dwelling at
Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was
magnified.

19:18 And many that believed came, and confessed, and shewed their
deeds.

19:19 Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books
together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price
of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.

19:20 So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.

19:21 After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, when
he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem,
saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.

19:22 So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him,
Timotheus and Erastus; but he himself stayed in Asia for a season.

19:23 And the same time there arose no small stir about that way.

19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made
silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;
19:25 Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and
said, Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.

19:26 Moreover ye see and hear, that not alone at Ephesus, but almost
throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much
people, saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands: 19:27
So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; but
also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised,
and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world
worshippeth.

19:28 And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and
cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:29 And the whole city was filled with confusion: and having caught
Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel,
they rushed with one accord into the theatre.

19:30 And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, the
disciples suffered him not.

19:31 And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sent
unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the
theatre.

19:32 Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for the
assembly was confused: and the more part knew not wherefore they were
come together.

19:33 And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting
him forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have made
his defence unto the people.

19:34 But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about
the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:35 And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men
of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of
the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the
image which fell down from Jupiter?  19:36 Seeing then that these
things cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to do
nothing rashly.

19:37 For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers
of churches, nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.

19:38 Wherefore if Demetrius, and the craftsmen which are with him,
have a matter against any man, the law is open, and there are
deputies: let them implead one another.

19:39 But if ye enquire any thing concerning other matters, it shall
be determined in a lawful assembly.

19:40 For we are in danger to be called in question for this day's
uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this
concourse.

19:41 And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.

20:1 And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto him the
disciples, and embraced them, and departed for to go into Macedonia.

20:2 And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them much
exhortation, he came into Greece, 20:3 And there abode three months.
And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into
Syria, he purposed to return through Macedonia.

20:4 And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of the
Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and
Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.

20:5 These going before tarried for us at Troas.

20:6 And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened
bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode seven
days.

20:7 And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came
together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on
the morrow; and continued his speech until midnight.

20:8 And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were
gathered together.

20:9 And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus,
being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he
sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken
up dead.

20:10 And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said,
Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.

20:11 When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and
eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he
departed.

20:12 And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little
comforted.

20:13 And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, there
intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself to
go afoot.

20:14 And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to
Mitylene.

20:15 And we sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios;
and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; and
the next day we came to Miletus.

20:16 For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would not
spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, to
be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.

20:17 And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of
the church.

20:18 And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from
the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been
with you at all seasons, 20:19 Serving the LORD with all humility of
mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the
lying in wait of the Jews: 20:20 And how I kept back nothing that was
profitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you
publickly, and from house to house, 20:21 Testifying both to the Jews,
and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our
Lord Jesus Christ.

20:22 And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not
knowing the things that shall befall me there: 20:23 Save that the
Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions
abide me.

20:24 But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear
unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the
ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the
gospel of the grace of God.

20:25 And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone
preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.

20:26 Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the
blood of all men.

20:27 For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of
God.

20:28 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over
the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church
of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.

20:29 For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves
enter in among you, not sparing the flock.

20:30 Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse
things, to draw away disciples after them.

20:31 Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years
I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears.

20:32 And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his
grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance
among all them which are sanctified.

20:33 I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.

20:34 Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto
my necessities, and to them that were with me.

20:35 I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to
support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.

20:36 And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with
them all.

20:37 And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him,
20:38 Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they
should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.

21:1 And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and had
launched, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the day
following unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara: 21:2 And finding a
ship sailing over unto Phenicia, we went aboard, and set forth.

21:3 Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand,
and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was to
unlade her burden.

21:4 And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to
Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.

21:5 And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our
way; and they all brought us on our way, with wives and children, till
we were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.

21:6 And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; and
they returned home again.

21:7 And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to
Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.

21:8 And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and
came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip the
evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.

21:9 And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.

21:10 And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a
certain prophet, named Agabus.

21:11 And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound
his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall
the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall
deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.

21:12 And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place,
besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.

21:13 Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine
heart?  for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at
Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.

21:14 And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will
of the Lord be done.

21:15 And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to
Jerusalem.

21:16 There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea,
and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom
we should lodge.

21:17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us
gladly.

21:18 And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all
the elders were present.

21:19 And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly what
things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.

21:20 And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto
him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which
believe; and they are all zealous of the law: 21:21 And they are
informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the
Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise
their children, neither to walk after the customs.

21:22 What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together:
for they will hear that thou art come.

21:23 Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which
have a vow on them; 21:24 Them take, and purify thyself with them, and
be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may
know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee,
are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest
the law.

21:25 As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written and
concluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keep
themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from
strangled, and from fornication.

21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with
them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of the
days of purification, until that an offering should be offered for
every one of them.

21:27 And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which were
of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people,
and laid hands on him, 21:28 Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is
the man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the
law, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple,
and hath polluted this holy place.

21:29 (For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an
Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.)
21:30 And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: and
they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith the
doors were shut.

21:31 And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chief
captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.

21:32 Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unto
them: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left
beating of Paul.

21:33 Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded
him to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he
had done.

21:34 And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and
when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him
to be carried into the castle.

21:35 And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne
of the soldiers for the violence of the people.

21:36 For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away
with him.

21:37 And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the
chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak
Greek?  21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days
madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand
men that were murderers?  21:39 But Paul said, I am a man which am a
Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I
beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people.

21:40 And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and
beckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a
great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying, 22:1
Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto
you.

22:2 (And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them,
they kept the more silence: and he saith,) 22:3 I am verily a man
which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in
this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect
manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye
all are this day.

22:4 And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering
into prisons both men and women.

22:5 As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate
of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren,
and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto
Jerusalem, for to be punished.

22:6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come
nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a
great light round about me.

22:7 And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me,
Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?  22:8 And I answered, Who art
thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou
persecutest.

22:9 And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid;
but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.

22:10 And I said, What shall I do, LORD? And the Lord said unto me,
Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all
things which are appointed for thee to do.

22:11 And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led
by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus.

22:12 And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a
good report of all the Jews which dwelt there, 22:13 Came unto me, and
stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same
hour I looked up upon him.

22:14 And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou
shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the
voice of his mouth.

22:15 For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast
seen and heard.

22:16 And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away
thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.

22:17 And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem,
even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; 22:18 And saw
him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem:
for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me.

22:19 And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every
synagogue them that believed on thee: 22:20 And when the blood of thy
martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto
his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him.

22:21 And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto
the Gentiles.

22:22 And they gave him audience unto this word, and then lifted up
their voices, and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for it
is not fit that he should live.

22:23 And as they cried out, and cast off their clothes, and threw
dust into the air, 22:24 The chief captain commanded him to be brought
into the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging;
that he might know wherefore they cried so against him.

22:25 And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion
that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman,
and uncondemned?  22:26 When the centurion heard that, he went and
told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for this
man is a Roman.

22:27 Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art
thou a Roman? He said, Yea.

22:28 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this
freedom. And Paul said, But I was free born.

22:29 Then straightway they departed from him which should have
examined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knew
that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.

22:30 On the morrow, because he would have known the certainty
wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from his bands,
and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and
brought Paul down, and set him before them.

23:1 And Paul, earnestly beholding the council, said, Men and
brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this
day.

23:2 And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to
smite him on the mouth.

23:3 Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall:
for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to be
smitten contrary to the law?  23:4 And they that stood by said,
Revilest thou God's high priest?  23:5 Then said Paul, I wist not,
brethren, that he was the high priest: for it is written, Thou shalt
not speak evil of the ruler of thy people.

23:6 But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and the
other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am a
Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resurrection of the
dead I am called in question.

23:7 And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the
Pharisees and the Sadducees: and the multitude was divided.

23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither
angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.

23:9 And there arose a great cry: and the scribes that were of the
Pharisees' part arose, and strove, saying, We find no evil in this
man: but if a spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, let us not fight
against God.

23:10 And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain,
fearing lest Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them, commanded
the soldiers to go down, and to take him by force from among them, and
to bring him into the castle.

23:11 And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of
good cheer, Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so
must thou bear witness also at Rome.

23:12 And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and
bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor
drink till they had killed Paul.

23:13 And they were more than forty which had made this conspiracy.

23:14 And they came to the chief priests and elders, and said, We have
bound ourselves under a great curse, that we will eat nothing until we
have slain Paul.

23:15 Now therefore ye with the council signify to the chief captain
that he bring him down unto you to morrow, as though ye would enquire
something more perfectly concerning him: and we, or ever he come near,
are ready to kill him.

23:16 And when Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, he
went and entered into the castle, and told Paul.

23:17 Then Paul called one of the centurions unto him, and said, Bring
this young man unto the chief captain: for he hath a certain thing to
tell him.

23:18 So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and said,
Paul the prisoner called me unto him, and prayed me to bring this
young man unto thee, who hath something to say unto thee.

23:19 Then the chief captain took him by the hand, and went with him
aside privately, and asked him, What is that thou hast to tell me?
23:20 And he said, The Jews have agreed to desire thee that thou
wouldest bring down Paul to morrow into the council, as though they
would enquire somewhat of him more perfectly.

23:21 But do not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him
of them more than forty men, which have bound themselves with an oath,
that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him: and
now are they ready, looking for a promise from thee.

23:22 So the chief captain then let the young man depart, and charged
him, See thou tell no man that thou hast shewed these things to me.

23:23 And he called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready two
hundred soldiers to go to Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten,
and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night; 23:24 And
provide them beasts, that they may set Paul on, and bring him safe
unto Felix the governor.

23:25 And he wrote a letter after this manner: 23:26 Claudius Lysias
unto the most excellent governor Felix sendeth greeting.

23:27 This man was taken of the Jews, and should have been killed of
them: then came I with an army, and rescued him, having understood
that he was a Roman.

23:28 And when I would have known the cause wherefore they accused
him, I brought him forth into their council: 23:29 Whom I perceived to
be accused of questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his
charge worthy of death or of bonds.

23:30 And when it was told me how that the Jews laid wait for the man,
I sent straightway to thee, and gave commandment to his accusers also
to say before thee what they had against him. Farewell.

23:31 Then the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul, and
brought him by night to Antipatris.

23:32 On the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and
returned to the castle: 23:33 Who, when they came to Caesarea and
delivered the epistle to the governor, presented Paul also before him.

23:34 And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of what
province he was. And when he understood that he was of Cilicia; 23:35
I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come. And he
commanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall.

24:1 And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with the
elders, and with a certain orator named Tertullus, who informed the
governor against Paul.

24:2 And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him,
saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very
worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence, 24:3 We
accept it always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with all
thankfulness.

24:4 Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I pray
thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words.

24:5 For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of
sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of
the sect of the Nazarenes: 24:6 Who also hath gone about to profane
the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law.

24:7 But the chief captain Lysias came upon us, and with great
violence took him away out of our hands, 24:8 Commanding his accusers
to come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge
of all these things, whereof we accuse him.

24:9 And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so.

24:10 Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him to
speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years
a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself:
24:11 Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but
twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship.

24:12 And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man,
neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the
city: 24:13 Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse
me.

24:14 But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call
heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which
are written in the law and in the prophets: 24:15 And have hope toward
God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a
resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.

24:16 And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience
void to offence toward God, and toward men.

24:17 Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, and
offerings.

24:18 Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the
temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult.

24:19 Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they had
ought against me.

24:20 Or else let these same here say, if they have found any evil
doing in me, while I stood before the council, 24:21 Except it be for
this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the
resurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day.

24:22 And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge
of that way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captain
shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter.

24:23 And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let him have
liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to
minister or come unto him.

24:24 And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla,
which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the
faith in Christ.

24:25 And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to
come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I
have a convenient season, I will call for thee.

24:26 He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul,
that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and
communed with him.

24:27 But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: and
Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.

25:1 Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he
ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem.

25:2 Then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed him
against Paul, and besought him, 25:3 And desired favour against him,
that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way to
kill him.

25:4 But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and
that he himself would depart shortly thither.

25:5 Let them therefore, said he, which among you are able, go down
with me, and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him.

25:6 And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he went
down unto Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seat
commanded Paul to be brought.

25:7 And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalem
stood round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul,
which they could not prove.

25:8 While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of the
Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I
offended any thing at all.

25:9 But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul, and
said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these
things before me?  25:10 Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgment
seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as
thou very well knowest.

25:11 For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of
death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things
whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appeal
unto Caesar.

25:12 Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered,
Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go.

25:13 And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto
Caesarea to salute Festus.

25:14 And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul's
cause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds by
Felix: 25:15 About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests
and the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgment
against him.

25:16 To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to
deliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have the
accusers face to face, and have licence to answer for himself
concerning the crime laid against him.

25:17 Therefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on the
morrow I sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought
forth.

25:18 Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought none
accusation of such things as I supposed: 25:19 But had certain
questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus,
which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.

25:20 And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked him
whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these
matters.

25:21 But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of
Augustus, I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Caesar.

25:22 Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself.
To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.

25:23 And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with
great pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the chief
captains, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul
was brought forth.

25:24 And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men which are here
present with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the
Jews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem, and also here, crying that
he ought not to live any longer.

25:25 But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death,
and that he himself hath appealed to Augustus, I have determined to
send him.

25:26 Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord. Wherefore
I have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O king
Agrippa, that, after examination had, I might have somewhat to write.

25:27 For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not
withal to signify the crimes laid against him.

26:1 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for
thyself.

Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself: 26:2 I
think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself
this day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused of
the Jews: 26:3 Especially because I know thee to be expert in all
customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech
thee to hear me patiently.

26:4 My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among
mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews; 26:5 Which knew me
from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most
straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.

26:6 And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of
God, unto our fathers: 26:7 Unto which promise our twelve tribes,
instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's
sake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews.

26:8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God
should raise the dead?  26:9 I verily thought with myself, that I
ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.

26:10 Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did
I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests;
and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.

26:11 And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them
to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted
them even unto strange cities.

26:12 Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission
from the chief priests, 26:13 At midday, O king, I saw in the way a
light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round
about me and them which journeyed with me.

26:14 And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice
speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why
persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.

26:15 And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom
thou persecutest.

26:16 But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee
for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these
things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will
appear unto thee; 26:17 Delivering thee from the people, and from the
Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, 26:18 To open their eyes, and to
turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto
God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among
them which are sanctified by faith that is in me.

26:19 Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the
heavenly vision: 26:20 But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at
Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and then to the
Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet
for repentance.

26:21 For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went
about to kill me.

26:22 Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day,
witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than
those which the prophets and Moses did say should come: 26:23 That
Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise
from the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the
Gentiles.

26:24 And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice,
Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad.

26:25 But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth
the words of truth and soberness.

26:26 For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak
freely: for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from
him; for this thing was not done in a corner.

26:27 King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou
believest.

26:28 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a
Christian.

26:29 And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all
that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am,
except these bonds.

26:30 And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor,
and Bernice, and they that sat with them: 26:31 And when they were
gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth
nothing worthy of death or of bonds.

26:32 Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man might have been set at
liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.

27:1 And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, they
delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, a
centurion of Augustus' band.

27:2 And entering into a ship of Adramyttium, we launched, meaning to
sail by the coasts of Asia; one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of
Thessalonica, being with us.

27:3 And the next day we touched at Sidon. And Julius courteously
entreated Paul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh
himself.

27:4 And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus,
because the winds were contrary.

27:5 And when we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we
came to Myra, a city of Lycia.

27:6 And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing into
Italy; and he put us therein.

27:7 And when we had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were come
over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete,
over against Salmone; 27:8 And, hardly passing it, came unto a place
which is called The fair havens; nigh whereunto was the city of Lasea.

27:9 Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous,
because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them, 27:10 And
said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt
and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our
lives.

27:11 Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of
the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.

27:12 And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more
part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attain
to Phenice, and there to winter; which is an haven of Crete, and lieth
toward the south west and north west.

27:13 And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had
obtained their purpose, loosing thence, they sailed close by Crete.

27:14 But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind,
called Euroclydon.

27:15 And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up into the
wind, we let her drive.

27:16 And running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we
had much work to come by the boat: 27:17 Which when they had taken up,
they used helps, undergirding the ship; and, fearing lest they should
fall into the quicksands, strake sail, and so were driven.

27:18 And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day
they lightened the ship; 27:19 And the third day we cast out with our
own hands the tackling of the ship.

27:20 And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no
small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was then
taken away.

27:21 But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them,
and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed
from Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss.

27:22 And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no
loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship.

27:23 For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am,
and whom I serve, 27:24 Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must be brought
before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with
thee.

27:25 Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God, that it
shall be even as it was told me.

27:26 Howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island.

27:27 But when the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up and
down in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near
to some country; 27:28 And sounded, and found it twenty fathoms: and
when they had gone a little further, they sounded again, and found it
fifteen fathoms.

27:29 Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast
four anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day.

27:30 And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they
had let down the boat into the sea, under colour as though they would
have cast anchors out of the foreship, 27:31 Paul said to the
centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye
cannot be saved.

27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let her
fall off.

27:33 And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take
meat, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and
continued fasting, having taken nothing.

27:34 Wherefore I pray you to take some meat: for this is for your
health: for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you.

27:35 And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks to
God in presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to
eat.

27:36 Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.

27:37 And we were in all in the ship two hundred threescore and
sixteen souls.

27:38 And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, and
cast out the wheat into the sea.

27:39 And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered
a certain creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it
were possible, to thrust in the ship.

27:40 And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed
themselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised up
the mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore.

27:41 And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship
aground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remained unmoveable, but the
hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.

27:42 And the soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of
them should swim out, and escape.

27:43 But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their
purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast
themselves first into the sea, and get to land: 27:44 And the rest,
some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship.

And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.

28:1 And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was
called Melita.

28:2 And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they
kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present
rain, and because of the cold.

28:3 And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on
the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his
hand.

28:4 And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand,
they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom,
though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.

28:5 And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm.

28:6 Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down
dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no
harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a
god.

28:7 In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the
island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three
days courteously.

28:8 And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a
fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and
laid his hands on him, and healed him.

28:9 So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the
island, came, and were healed: 28:10 Who also honoured us with many
honours; and when we departed, they laded us with such things as were
necessary.

28:11 And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria,
which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.

28:12 And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.

28:13 And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: and
after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to
Puteoli: 28:14 Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with
them seven days: and so we went toward Rome.

28:15 And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came to
meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paul
saw, he thanked God, and took courage.

28:16 And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners
to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself
with a soldier that kept him.

28:17 And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chief
of the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said unto
them, Men and brethren, though I have committed nothing against the
people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner from
Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.

28:18 Who, when they had examined me, would have let me go, because
there was no cause of death in me.

28:19 But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal
unto Caesar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.

28:20 For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see you, and
to speak with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with
this chain.

28:21 And they said unto him, We neither received letters out of
Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed
or spake any harm of thee.

28:22 But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as
concerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against.

28:23 And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him
into his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of
God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses,
and out of the prophets, from morning till evening.

28:24 And some believed the things which were spoken, and some
believed not.

28:25 And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after
that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias the
prophet unto our fathers, 28:26 Saying, Go unto this people, and say,
Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall
see, and not perceive: 28:27 For the heart of this people is waxed
gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they
closed; lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their
ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I
should heal them.

28:28 Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is
sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it.

28:29 And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and had
great reasoning among themselves.

28:30 And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and
received all that came in unto him, 28:31 Preaching the kingdom of
God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ,
with all confidence, no man forbidding him.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Romans


1:1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle,
separated unto the gospel of God, 1:2 (Which he had promised afore by
his prophets in the holy scriptures,) 1:3 Concerning his Son Jesus
Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the
flesh; 1:4 And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to
the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead: 1:5 By whom
we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faith
among all nations, for his name: 1:6 Among whom are ye also the called
of Jesus Christ: 1:7 To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to
be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord
Jesus Christ.

1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your
faith is spoken of throughout the whole world.

1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel
of his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my
prayers; 1:10 Making request, if by any means now at length I might
have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you.

1:11 For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual
gift, to the end ye may be established; 1:12 That is, that I may be
comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me.

1:13 Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I
purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might have
some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.

1:14 I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to
the wise, and to the unwise.

1:15 So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you
that are at Rome also.

1:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power
of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first,
and also to the Greek.

1:17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to
faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.

1:18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all
ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in
unrighteousness; 1:19 Because that which may be known of God is
manifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.

1:20 For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world
are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even
his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse: 1:21
Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God,
neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and
their foolish heart was darkened.

1:22 Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, 1:23 And
changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to
corruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping
things.

1:24 Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts
of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:
1:25 Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and
served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever.
Amen.

1:26 For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even
their women did change the natural use into that which is against
nature: 1:27 And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the
woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working
that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of
their error which was meet.

1:28 And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge,
God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are
not convenient; 1:29 Being filled with all unrighteousness,
fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy,
murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers, 1:30 Backbiters, haters
of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things,
disobedient to parents, 1:31 Without understanding, covenantbreakers,
without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful: 1:32 Who knowing
the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of
death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.

2:1 Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that
judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself;
for thou that judgest doest the same things.

2:2 But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth
against them which commit such things.

2:3 And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which do such
things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of
God?  2:4 Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance
and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee
to repentance?  2:5 But after thy hardness and impenitent heart
treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and
revelation of the righteous judgment of God; 2:6 Who will render to
every man according to his deeds: 2:7 To them who by patient
continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality,
eternal life: 2:8 But unto them that are contentious, and do not obey
the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, 2:9
Tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of
the Jew first, and also of the Gentile; 2:10 But glory, honour, and
peace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to
the Gentile: 2:11 For there is no respect of persons with God.

2:12 For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without
law: and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law;
2:13 (For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the
doers of the law shall be justified.

2:14 For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the
things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto
themselves: 2:15 Which shew the work of the law written in their
hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the
mean while accusing or else excusing one another;) 2:16 In the day
when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to
my gospel.

2:17 Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest
thy boast of God, 2:18 And knowest his will, and approvest the things
that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law; 2:19 And art
confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them
which are in darkness, 2:20 An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of
babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law.

2:21 Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?
thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?  2:22
Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit
adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?  2:23
Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law
dishonourest thou God?  2:24 For the name of God is blasphemed among
the Gentiles through you, as it is written.

2:25 For circumcision verily profiteth, if thou keep the law: but if
thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision.

2:26 Therefore if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the
law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?  2:27
And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law,
judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the
law?  2:28 For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is
that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh: 2:29 But he is a
Jew, which is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in
the spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of
God.

3:1 What advantage then hath the Jew? or what profit is there of
circumcision?  3:2 Much every way: chiefly, because that unto them
were committed the oracles of God.

3:3 For what if some did not believe? shall their unbelief make the
faith of God without effect?  3:4 God forbid: yea, let God be true,
but every man a liar; as it is written, That thou mightest be
justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged.

3:5 But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what
shall we say? Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as a
man) 3:6 God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world?  3:7 For
if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory;
why yet am I also judged as a sinner?  3:8 And not rather, (as we be
slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us do
evil, that good may come? whose damnation is just.

3:9 What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we have
before proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin;
3:10 As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one: 3:11
There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after
God.

3:12 They are all gone out of the way, they are together become
unprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

3:13 Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have
used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips: 3:14 Whose mouth
is full of cursing and bitterness: 3:15 Their feet are swift to shed
blood: 3:16 Destruction and misery are in their ways: 3:17 And the way
of peace have they not known: 3:18 There is no fear of God before
their eyes.

3:19 Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to
them who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all
the world may become guilty before God.

3:20 Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be
justified in his sight: for by the law is the knowledge of sin.

3:21 But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested,
being witnessed by the law and the prophets; 3:22 Even the
righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and
upon all them that believe: for there is no difference: 3:23 For all
have sinned, and come short of the glory of God; 3:24 Being justified
freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus:
3:25 Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his
blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are
past, through the forbearance of God; 3:26 To declare, I say, at this
time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of
him which believeth in Jesus.

3:27 Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works?
Nay: but by the law of faith.

3:28 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without
the deeds of the law.

3:29 Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles?
Yes, of the Gentiles also: 3:30 Seeing it is one God, which shall
justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.

3:31 Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we
establish the law.

4:1 What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to
the flesh, hath found?  4:2 For if Abraham were justified by works, he
hath whereof to glory; but not before God.

4:3 For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was
counted unto him for righteousness.

4:4 Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but
of debt.

4:5 But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth
the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.

4:6 Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, unto
whom God imputeth righteousness without works, 4:7 Saying, Blessed are
they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.

4:8 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.

4:9 Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon
the uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham
for righteousness.

4:10 How was it then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in
uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.

4:11 And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the
righteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised: that
he might be the father of all them that believe, though they be not
circumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also: 4:12
And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision
only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father
Abraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised.

4:13 For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not
to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the
righteousness of faith.

4:14 For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void,
and the promise made of none effect: 4:15 Because the law worketh
wrath: for where no law is, there is no transgression.

4:16 Therefore it is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the end
the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is
of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who is
the father of us all, 4:17 (As it is written, I have made thee a
father of many nations,) before him whom he believed, even God, who
quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though
they were.

4:18 Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the
father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall
thy seed be.

4:19 And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now
dead, when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness
of Sarah's womb: 4:20 He staggered not at the promise of God through
unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; 4:21 And being
fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to
perform.

4:22 And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.

4:23 Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to
him; 4:24 But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe
on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead; 4:25 Who was
delivered for our offences, and was raised again for our
justification.

5:1 Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through
our Lord Jesus Christ: 5:2 By whom also we have access by faith into
this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.

5:3 And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that
tribulation worketh patience; 5:4 And patience, experience; and
experience, hope: 5:5 And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of
God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto
us.

5:6 For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for
the ungodly.

5:7 For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure
for a good man some would even dare to die.

5:8 But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet
sinners, Christ died for us.

5:9 Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be
saved from wrath through him.

5:10 For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the
death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by
his life.

5:11 And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus
Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement.

5:12 Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by
sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned: 5:13
(For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when
there is no law.

5:14 Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them
that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who
is the figure of him that was to come.

5:15 But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if through
the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the
gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto
many.

5:16 And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift: for the
judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many
offences unto justification.

5:17 For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more they
which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness
shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)  5:18 Therefore as by the
offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by
the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto
justification of life.

5:19 For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by
the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.

5:20 Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But
where sin abounded, grace did much more abound: 5:21 That as sin hath
reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness
unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

6:1 What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may
abound?  6:2 God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any
longer therein?  6:3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized
into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?  6:4 Therefore we are
buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised
up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should
walk in newness of life.

6:5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death,
we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection: 6:6 Knowing
this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin
might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.

6:7 For he that is dead is freed from sin.

6:8 Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live
with him: 6:9 Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no
more; death hath no more dominion over him.

6:10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he
liveth, he liveth unto God.

6:11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin,
but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.

6:12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should
obey it in the lusts thereof.

6:13 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness
unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from
the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.

6:14 For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under
the law, but under grace.

6:15 What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but
under grace? God forbid.

6:16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey,
his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of
obedience unto righteousness?  6:17 But God be thanked, that ye were
the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of
doctrine which was delivered you.

6:18 Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of
righteousness.

6:19 I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your
flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and
to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to
righteousness unto holiness.

6:20 For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from
righteousness.

6:21 What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now
ashamed?  for the end of those things is death.

6:22 But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye
have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life.

6:23 For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal
life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

7:1 Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,)
how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth?  7:2
For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband
so long as he liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed from
the law of her husband.

7:3 So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another
man, she shall be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead,
she is free from that law; so that she is no adulteress, though she be
married to another man.

7:4 Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the
body of Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to him who
is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God.

7:5 For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were by
the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death.

7:6 But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we
were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the
oldness of the letter.

7:7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not
known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law
had said, Thou shalt not covet.

7:8 But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all
manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead.

7:9 For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment
came, sin revived, and I died.

7:10 And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be
unto death.

7:11 For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by
it slew me.

7:12 Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just,
and good.

7:13 Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But
sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is
good; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.

7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold
under sin.

7:15 For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not;
but what I hate, that do I.

7:16 If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that
it is good.

7:17 Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.

7:18 For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good
thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which
is good I find not.

7:19 For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would
not, that I do.

7:20 Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin
that dwelleth in me.

7:21 I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present
with me.

7:22 For I delight in the law of God after the inward man: 7:23 But I
see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and
bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.

7:24 O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of
this death?  7:25 I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then
with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the
law of sin.

8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ
Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me
free from the law of sin and death.

8:3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the
flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and
for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: 8:4 That the righteousness of the
law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after
the Spirit.

8:5 For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh;
but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.

8:6 For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded
is life and peace.

8:7 Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not
subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.

8:8 So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.

8:9 But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the
Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of
Christ, he is none of his.

8:10 And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the
Spirit is life because of righteousness.

8:11 But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell
in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your
mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.

8:12 Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live
after the flesh.

8:13 For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through
the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.

8:14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of
God.

8:15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; but
ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.

8:16 The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are
the children of God: 8:17 And if children, then heirs; heirs of God,
and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we
may be also glorified together.

8:18 For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not
worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.

8:19 For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the
manifestation of the sons of God.

8:20 For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but
by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope, 8:21 Because the
creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption
into the glorious liberty of the children of God.

8:22 For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in
pain together until now.

8:23 And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits
of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for
the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.

8:24 For we are saved by hope: but hope that is seen is not hope: for
what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?  8:25 But if we hope for
that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it.

8:26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we know not
what we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh
intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.

8:27 And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the
Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the
will of God.

8:28 And we know that all things work together for good to them that
love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.

8:29 For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be
conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn
among many brethren.

8:30 Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom
he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also
glorified.

8:31 What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can
be against us?  8:32 He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him
up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all
things?  8:33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's elect? It
is God that justifieth.

8:34 Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather,
that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also
maketh intercession for us.

8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation,
or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or
sword?  8:36 As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day
long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

8:37 Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him
that loved us.

8:38 For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor
principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
8:39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to
separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

9:1 I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearing
me witness in the Holy Ghost, 9:2 That I have great heaviness and
continual sorrow in my heart.

9:3 For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my
brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh: 9:4 Who are Israelites;
to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and
the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises; 9:5
Whose are the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ
came, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.

9:6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they are
not all Israel, which are of Israel: 9:7 Neither, because they are the
seed of Abraham, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed
be called.

9:8 That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these are not
the children of God: but the children of the promise are counted for
the seed.

9:9 For this is the word of promise, At this time will I come, and
Sarah shall have a son.

9:10 And not only this; but when Rebecca also had conceived by one,
even by our father Isaac; 9:11 (For the children being not yet born,
neither having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God
according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that
calleth;) 9:12 It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the
younger.

9:13 As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.

9:14 What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God
forbid.

9:15 For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have
mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion.

9:16 So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth,
but of God that sheweth mercy.

9:17 For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose
have I raised thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that my
name might be declared throughout all the earth.

9:18 Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he
will he hardeneth.

9:19 Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who
hath resisted his will?  9:20 Nay but, O man, who art thou that
repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed
it, Why hast thou made me thus?  9:21 Hath not the potter power over
the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another
unto dishonour?  9:22 What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and to
make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of
wrath fitted to destruction: 9:23 And that he might make known the
riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had afore
prepared unto glory, 9:24 Even us, whom he hath called, not of the
Jews only, but also of the Gentiles?  9:25 As he saith also in Osee, I
will call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved,
which was not beloved.

9:26 And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said
unto them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be called the
children of the living God.

9:27 Esaias also crieth concerning Israel, Though the number of the
children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be
saved: 9:28 For he will finish the work, and cut it short in
righteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth.

9:29 And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us
a seed, we had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha.

9:30 What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, which followed not
after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the
righteousness which is of faith.

9:31 But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath
not attained to the law of righteousness.

9:32 Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by
the works of the law. For they stumbled at that stumblingstone; 9:33
As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and rock of
offence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.

10:1 Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that
they might be saved.

10:2 For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not
according to knowledge.

10:3 For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about
to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves
unto the righteousness of God.

10:4 For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one
that believeth.

10:5 For Moses describeth the righteousness which is of the law, That
the man which doeth those things shall live by them.

10:6 But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise,
Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to
bring Christ down from above:) 10:7 Or, Who shall descend into the
deep? (that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.)  10:8 But
what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy
heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach; 10:9 That if thou
shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in
thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be
saved.

10:10 For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with
the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

10:11 For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be
ashamed.

10:12 For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: for
the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him.

10:13 For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be
saved.

10:14 How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed?
and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how
shall they hear without a preacher?  10:15 And how shall they preach,
except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of
them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good
things!  10:16 But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Esaias
saith, Lord, who hath believed our report?  10:17 So then faith cometh
by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.

10:18 But I say, Have they not heard? Yes verily, their sound went
into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world.

10:19 But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will
provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish
nation I will anger you.

10:20 But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was found of them that
sought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me.

10:21 But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my
hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people.

11:1 I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also
am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.

11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye not
what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God
against Israel saying, 11:3 Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and
digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.

11:4 But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to
myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to the image of
Baal.

11:5 Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant
according to the election of grace.

11:6 And if by grace, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace is
no more grace. But if it be of works, then it is no more grace:
otherwise work is no more work.

11:7 What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for;
but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded.

11:8 (According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of
slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not
hear;) unto this day.

11:9 And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, and
a stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them: 11:10 Let their eyes be
darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway.

11:11 I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? God
forbid: but rather through their fall salvation is come unto the
Gentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy.

11:12 Now if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the
diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their
fulness?  11:13 For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the
apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office: 11:14 If by any means
I may provoke to emulation them which are my flesh, and might save
some of them.

11:15 For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world,
what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?  11:16
For if the firstfruit be holy, the lump is also holy: and if the root
be holy, so are the branches.

11:17 And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being a
wild olive tree, wert graffed in among them, and with them partakest
of the root and fatness of the olive tree; 11:18 Boast not against the
branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root
thee.

11:19 Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I might
be graffed in.

11:20 Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou
standest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear: 11:21 For if God
spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not
thee.

11:22 Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which
fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his
goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.

11:23 And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be
graffed in: for God is able to graff them in again.

11:24 For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by
nature, and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree:
how much more shall these, which be the natural branches, be graffed
into their own olive tree?  11:25 For I would not, brethren, that ye
should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own
conceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the
fulness of the Gentiles be come in.

11:26 And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shall
come out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from
Jacob: 11:27 For this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away
their sins.

11:28 As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but
as touching the election, they are beloved for the father's sakes.

11:29 For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance.

11:30 For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have now
obtained mercy through their unbelief: 11:31 Even so have these also
now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.

11:32 For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have
mercy upon all.

11:33 O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of
God!  how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding
out!  11:34 For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been
his counsellor?  11:35 Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be
recompensed unto him again?  11:36 For of him, and through him, and to
him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.

12:1 I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye
present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God,
which is your reasonable service.

12:2 And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the
renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and
acceptable, and perfect, will of God.

12:3 For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is
among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think;
but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the
measure of faith.

12:4 For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not
the same office: 12:5 So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and
every one members one of another.

12:6 Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given
to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion
of faith; 12:7 Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering: or he that
teacheth, on teaching; 12:8 Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he
that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with
diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.

12:9 Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil;
cleave to that which is good.

12:10 Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in
honour preferring one another; 12:11 Not slothful in business; fervent
in spirit; serving the Lord; 12:12 Rejoicing in hope; patient in
tribulation; continuing instant in prayer; 12:13 Distributing to the
necessity of saints; given to hospitality.

12:14 Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not.

12:15 Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.

12:16 Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things,
but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.

12:17 Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the
sight of all men.

12:18 If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with
all men.

12:19 Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place
unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith
the Lord.

12:20 Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give
him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.

12:21 Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.

13:1 Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no
power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.

13:2 Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance
of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation.

13:3 For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt
thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou
shalt have praise of the same: 13:4 For he is the minister of God to
thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he
beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a
revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil.

13:5 Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but also
for conscience sake.

13:6 For for this cause pay ye tribute also: for they are God's
ministers, attending continually upon this very thing.

13:7 Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is
due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour.

13:8 Owe no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth
another hath fulfilled the law.

13:9 For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill,
Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt
not covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly
comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
thyself.

13:10 Love worketh no ill to his neighbour: therefore love is the
fulfilling of the law.

13:11 And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake
out of sleep: for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.

13:12 The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore
cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light.

13:13 Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting and
drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and
envying.

13:14 But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for
the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof.

14:1 Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful
disputations.

14:2 For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who is
weak, eateth herbs.

14:3 Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let not
him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him.

14:4 Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own
master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is
able to make him stand.

14:5 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every
day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.

14:6 He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he
that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that
eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that
eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks.

14:7 For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself.

14:8 For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die,
we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the
Lord's.

14:9 For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he
might be Lord both of the dead and living.

14:10 But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at
nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of
Christ.

14:11 For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall
bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.

14:12 So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God.

14:13 Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this
rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in his
brother's way.

14:14 I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is
nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be
unclean, to him it is unclean.

14:15 But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou
not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died.

14:16 Let not then your good be evil spoken of: 14:17 For the kingdom
of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in
the Holy Ghost.

14:18 For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God,
and approved of men.

14:19 Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace,
and things wherewith one may edify another.

14:20 For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are
pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.

14:21 It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any
thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak.

14:22 Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that
condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth.

14:23 And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not
of faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.

15:1 We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the
weak, and not to please ourselves.

15:2 Let every one of us please his neighbour for his good to
edification.

15:3 For even Christ pleased not himself; but, as it is written, The
reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.

15:4 For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our
learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might
have hope.

15:5 Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be
likeminded one toward another according to Christ Jesus: 15:6 That ye
may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our
Lord Jesus Christ.

15:7 Wherefore receive ye one another, as Christ also received us to
the glory of God.

15:8 Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision
for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:
15:9 And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is
written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, and
sing unto thy name.

15:10 And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.

15:11 And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, all
ye people.

15:12 And again, Esaias saith, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he
that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentiles
trust.

15:13 Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in
believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy
Ghost.

15:14 And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also
are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish
one another.

15:15 Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you
in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is
given to me of God, 15:16 That I should be the minister of Jesus
Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the
offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by
the Holy Ghost.

15:17 I have therefore whereof I may glory through Jesus Christ in
those things which pertain to God.

15:18 For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ
hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word and
deed, 15:19 Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the
Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum,
I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.

15:20 Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ
was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation: 15:21
But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see:
and they that have not heard shall understand.

15:22 For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to
you.

15:23 But now having no more place in these parts, and having a great
desire these many years to come unto you; 15:24 Whensoever I take my
journey into Spain, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in my
journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first I be
somewhat filled with your company.

15:25 But now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints.

15:26 For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a
certain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem.

15:27 It hath pleased them verily; and their debtors they are. For if
the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their
duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things.

15:28 When therefore I have performed this, and have sealed to them
this fruit, I will come by you into Spain.

15:29 And I am sure that, when I come unto you, I shall come in the
fulness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.

15:30 Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake,
and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in
your prayers to God for me; 15:31 That I may be delivered from them
that do not believe in Judaea; and that my service which I have for
Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints; 15:32 That I may come unto
you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.

15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.

16:1 I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the
church which is at Cenchrea: 16:2 That ye receive her in the Lord, as
becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she
hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself
also.

16:3 Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus: 16:4 Who
have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give
thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.

16:5 Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Salute my
well-beloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia unto Christ.

16:6 Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us.

16:7 Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellow-prisoners,
who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.

16:8 Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.

16:9 Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.

16:10 Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are of
Aristobulus' household.

16:11 Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that be of the household
of Narcissus, which are in the Lord.

16:12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the
beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord.

16:13 Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.

16:14 Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the
brethren which are with them.

16:15 Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and
Olympas, and all the saints which are with them.

16:16 Salute one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ
salute you.

16:17 Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and
offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid
them.

16:18 For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but
their own belly; and by good words and fair speeches deceive the
hearts of the simple.

16:19 For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad
therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that
which is good, and simple concerning evil.

16:20 And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.

16:21 Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater,
my kinsmen, salute you.

16:22 I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord.

16:23 Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you. Erastus
the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.

16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.

16:25 Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my
gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation
of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began, 16:26 But
now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according
to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations
for the obedience of faith: 16:27 To God only wise, be glory through
Jesus Christ for ever. Amen.



The First Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians


1:1 Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of
God, and Sosthenes our brother, 1:2 Unto the church of God which is at
Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be
saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus
Christ our Lord, both their's and our's: 1:3 Grace be unto you, and
peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:4 I thank my God always on your behalf, for the grace of God which
is given you by Jesus Christ; 1:5 That in every thing ye are enriched
by him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge; 1:6 Even as the
testimony of Christ was confirmed in you: 1:7 So that ye come behind
in no gift; waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ: 1:8 Who
shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the
day of our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:9 God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of his
Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

1:10 Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus
Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no
divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the
same mind and in the same judgment.

1:11 For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them
which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.

1:12 Now this I say, that every one of you saith, I am of Paul; and I
of Apollos; and I of Cephas; and I of Christ.

1:13 Is Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye
baptized in the name of Paul?  1:14 I thank God that I baptized none
of you, but Crispus and Gaius; 1:15 Lest any should say that I had
baptized in mine own name.

1:16 And I baptized also the household of Stephanas: besides, I know
not whether I baptized any other.

1:17 For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel: not
with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none
effect.

1:18 For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish
foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God.

1:19 For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and
will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.

1:20 Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of
this world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?  1:21
For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God,
it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that
believe.

1:22 For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom:
1:23 But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumblingblock,
and unto the Greeks foolishness; 1:24 But unto them which are called,
both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God.

1:25 Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the
weakness of God is stronger than men.

1:26 For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men
after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: 1:27 But
God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise;
and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the
things which are mighty; 1:28 And base things of the world, and things
which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to
bring to nought things that are: 1:29 That no flesh should glory in
his presence.

1:30 But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us
wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption: 1:31
That, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in
the Lord.

2:1 And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of
speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.

2:2 For I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus
Christ, and him crucified.

2:3 And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much
trembling.

2:4 And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of
man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power: 2:5
That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the
power of God.

2:6 Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the
wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to
nought: 2:7 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the
hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory: 2:8
Which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it,
they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.

2:9 But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love him.

2:10 But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit
searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.

2:11 For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man
which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the
Spirit of God.

2:12 Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit
which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given
to us of God.

2:13 Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom
teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual
things with spiritual.

2:14 But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them,
because they are spiritually discerned.

2:15 But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is
judged of no man.

2:16 For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct
him?  But we have the mind of Christ.

3:1 And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but
as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ.

3:2 I have fed you with milk, and not with meat: for hitherto ye were
not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able.

3:3 For ye are yet carnal: for whereas there is among you envying, and
strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk as men?  3:4 For
while one saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye
not carnal?  3:5 Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers
by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man?  3:6 I have
planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.

3:7 So then neither is he that planteth any thing, neither he that
watereth; but God that giveth the increase.

3:8 Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: and every man
shall receive his own reward according to his own labour.

3:9 For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, ye
are God's building.

3:10 According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise
masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth
thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon.

3:11 For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is
Jesus Christ.

3:12 Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious
stones, wood, hay, stubble; 3:13 Every man's work shall be made
manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed
by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is.

3:14 If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall
receive a reward.

3:15 If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he
himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire.

3:16 Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of
God dwelleth in you?  3:17 If any man defile the temple of God, him
shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.

3:18 Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be
wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise.

3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is
written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness.

3:20 And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they
are vain.

3:21 Therefore let no man glory in men. For all things are your's;
3:22 Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or
death, or things present, or things to come; all are your's; 3:23 And
ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's.

4:1 Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and
stewards of the mysteries of God.

4:2 Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.

4:3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of
you, or of man's judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self.

4:4 For I know nothing by myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but
he that judgeth me is the Lord.

4:5 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who
both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make
manifest the counsels of the hearts: and then shall every man have
praise of God.

4:6 And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to
myself and to Apollos for your sakes; that ye might learn in us not to
think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed
up for one against another.

4:7 For who maketh thee to differ from another? and what hast thou
that thou didst not receive? now if thou didst receive it, why dost
thou glory, as if thou hadst not received it?  4:8 Now ye are full,
now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us: and I would to
God ye did reign, that we also might reign with you.

4:9 For I think that God hath set forth us the apostles last, as it
were appointed to death: for we are made a spectacle unto the world,
and to angels, and to men.

4:10 We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ; we are
weak, but ye are strong; ye are honourable, but we are despised.

4:11 Even unto this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are
naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwellingplace; 4:12 And
labour, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being
persecuted, we suffer it: 4:13 Being defamed, we intreat: we are made
as the filth of the world, and are the offscouring of all things unto
this day.

4:14 I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I
warn you.

4:15 For though ye have ten thousand instructers in Christ, yet have
ye not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through
the gospel.

4:16 Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me.

4:17 For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved
son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of
my ways which be in Christ, as I teach every where in every church.

4:18 Now some are puffed up, as though I would not come to you.

4:19 But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know,
not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power.

4:20 For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.

4:21 What will ye? shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love, and
in the spirit of meekness?  5:1 It is reported commonly that there is
fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named
among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife.

5:2 And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he that
hath done this deed might be taken away from among you.

5:3 For I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have
judged already, as though I were present, concerning him that hath so
done this deed, 5:4 In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are
gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus
Christ, 5:5 To deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of
the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.

5:6 Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven
leaveneth the whole lump?  5:7 Purge out therefore the old leaven,
that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our
passover is sacrificed for us: 5:8 Therefore let us keep the feast,
not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness;
but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.

5:9 I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators:
5:10 Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with
the covetous, or extortioners, or with idolaters; for then must ye
needs go out of the world.

5:11 But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man
that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater,
or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such an one no not
to eat.

5:12 For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? do not
ye judge them that are within?  5:13 But them that are without God
judgeth. Therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person.

6:1 Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before
the unjust, and not before the saints?  6:2 Do ye not know that the
saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you,
are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?  6:3 Know ye not that
we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this life?
6:4 If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set
them to judge who are least esteemed in the church.

6:5 I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not a wise man
among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his
brethren?  6:6 But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before
the unbelievers.

6:7 Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to
law one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not
rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?  6:8 Nay, ye do wrong, and
defraud, and that your brethren.

6:9 Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of
God?  Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor
adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind,
6:10 Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor
extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.

6:11 And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are
sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by
the Spirit of our God.

6:12 All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient:
all things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the
power of any.

6:13 Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall
destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for
the Lord; and the Lord for the body.

6:14 And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us
by his own power.

6:15 Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I
then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an
harlot? God forbid.

6:16 What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one
body?  for two, saith he, shall be one flesh.

6:17 But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.

6:18 Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body;
but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.

6:19 What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost
which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?  6:20
For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body,
and in your spirit, which are God's.

7:1 Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me: It is good for
a man not to touch a woman.

7:2 Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own
wife, and let every woman have her own husband.

7:3 Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence: and likewise
also the wife unto the husband.

7:4 The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband: and
likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the
wife.

7:5 Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a
time, that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer; and come
together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency.

7:6 But I speak this by permission, and not of commandment.

7:7 For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath
his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that.

7:8 I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, It is good for them
if they abide even as I.

7:9 But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to
marry than to burn.

7:10 And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not
the wife depart from her husband: 7:11 But and if she depart, let her
remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband: and let not the
husband put away his wife.

7:12 But to the rest speak I, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife
that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not
put her away.

7:13 And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if he
be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him.

7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the
unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children
unclean; but now are they holy.

7:15 But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a
sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to
peace.

7:16 For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy
husband?  or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy
wife?  7:17 But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath
called every one, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all churches.

7:18 Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become
uncircumcised. Is any called in uncircumcision? let him not be
circumcised.

7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the
keeping of the commandments of God.

7:20 Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called.

7:21 Art thou called being a servant? care not for it: but if thou
mayest be made free, use it rather.

7:22 For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's
freeman: likewise also he that is called, being free, is Christ's
servant.

7:23 Ye are bought with a price; be not ye the servants of men.

7:24 Brethren, let every man, wherein he is called, therein abide with
God.

7:25 Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord: yet I
give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be
faithful.

7:26 I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress, I
say, that it is good for a man so to be.

7:27 Art thou bound unto a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou
loosed from a wife? seek not a wife.

7:28 But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin
marry, she hath not sinned. Nevertheless such shall have trouble in
the flesh: but I spare you.

7:29 But this I say, brethren, the time is short: it remaineth, that
both they that have wives be as though they had none; 7:30 And they
that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as though
they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not;
7:31 And they that use this world, as not abusing it: for the fashion
of this world passeth away.

7:32 But I would have you without carefulness. He that is unmarried
careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the
Lord: 7:33 But he that is married careth for the things that are of
the world, how he may please his wife.

7:34 There is difference also between a wife and a virgin. The
unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be
holy both in body and in spirit: but she that is married careth for
the things of the world, how she may please her husband.

7:35 And this I speak for your own profit; not that I may cast a snare
upon you, but for that which is comely, and that ye may attend upon
the Lord without distraction.

7:36 But if any man think that he behaveth himself uncomely toward his
virgin, if she pass the flower of her age, and need so require, let
him do what he will, he sinneth not: let them marry.

7:37 Nevertheless he that standeth stedfast in his heart, having no
necessity, but hath power over his own will, and hath so decreed in
his heart that he will keep his virgin, doeth well.

7:38 So then he that giveth her in marriage doeth well; but he that
giveth her not in marriage doeth better.

7:39 The wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth; but
if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom she
will; only in the Lord.

7:40 But she is happier if she so abide, after my judgment: and I
think also that I have the Spirit of God.

8:1 Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all
have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth.

8:2 And if any man think that he knoweth any thing, he knoweth nothing
yet as he ought to know.

8:3 But if any man love God, the same is known of him.

8:4 As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are
offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in
the world, and that there is none other God but one.

8:5 For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in
earth, (as there be gods many, and lords many,) 8:6 But to us there is
but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and
one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him.

8:7 Howbeit there is not in every man that knowledge: for some with
conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto
an idol; and their conscience being weak is defiled.

8:8 But meat commendeth us not to God: for neither, if we eat, are we
the better; neither, if we eat not, are we the worse.

8:9 But take heed lest by any means this liberty of your's become a
stumblingblock to them that are weak.

8:10 For if any man see thee which hast knowledge sit at meat in the
idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be
emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols; 8:11 And
through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ
died?  8:12 But when ye sin so against the brethren, and wound their
weak conscience, ye sin against Christ.

8:13 Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh
while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend.

9:1 Am I not an apostle? am I not free? have I not seen Jesus Christ
our Lord? are not ye my work in the Lord?  9:2 If I be not an apostle
unto others, yet doubtless I am to you: for the seal of mine
apostleship are ye in the Lord.

9:3 Mine answer to them that do examine me is this, 9:4 Have we not
power to eat and to drink?  9:5 Have we not power to lead about a
sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the
Lord, and Cephas?  9:6 Or I only and Barnabas, have not we power to
forbear working?  9:7 Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges?
who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? or who
feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?  9:8 Say I
these things as a man? or saith not the law the same also?  9:9 For it
is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the
ox that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen?  9:10 Or
saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is
written: that he that ploweth should plow in hope; and that he that
thresheth in hope should be partaker of his hope.

9:11 If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if
we shall reap your carnal things?  9:12 If others be partakers of this
power over you, are not we rather?  Nevertheless we have not used this
power; but suffer all things, lest we should hinder the gospel of
Christ.

9:13 Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of
the things of the temple? and they which wait at the altar are
partakers with the altar?  9:14 Even so hath the Lord ordained that
they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel.

9:15 But I have used none of these things: neither have I written
these things, that it should be so done unto me: for it were better
for me to die, than that any man should make my glorying void.

9:16 For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for
necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the
gospel!  9:17 For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but
if against my will, a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me.

9:18 What is my reward then? Verily that, when I preach the gospel, I
may make the gospel of Christ without charge, that I abuse not my
power in the gospel.

9:19 For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant
unto all, that I might gain the more.

9:20 And unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews;
to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain
them that are under the law; 9:21 To them that are without law, as
without law, (being not without law to God, but under the law to
Christ,) that I might gain them that are without law.

9:22 To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak: I am
made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some.

9:23 And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker
thereof with you.

9:24 Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one
receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain.

9:25 And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all
things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an
incorruptible.

9:26 I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one
that beateth the air: 9:27 But I keep under my body, and bring it into
subjection: lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I
myself should be a castaway.

10:1 Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how
that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the
sea; 10:2 And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the
sea; 10:3 And did all eat the same spiritual meat; 10:4 And did all
drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that spiritual Rock
that followed them: and that Rock was Christ.

10:5 But with many of them God was not well pleased: for they were
overthrown in the wilderness.

10:6 Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not
lust after evil things, as they also lusted.

10:7 Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written,
The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.

10:8 Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and
fell in one day three and twenty thousand.

10:9 Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and
were destroyed of serpents.

10:10 Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were
destroyed of the destroyer.

10:11 Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples: and they
are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are
come.

10:12 Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he
fall.

10:13 There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man:
but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that
ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape,
that ye may be able to bear it.

10:14 Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry.

10:15 I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.

10:16 The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of
the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion
of the body of Christ?  10:17 For we being many are one bread, and one
body: for we are all partakers of that one bread.

10:18 Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat of the
sacrifices partakers of the altar?  10:19 What say I then? that the
idol is any thing, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is
any thing?  10:20 But I say, that the things which the Gentiles
sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils, and not to God: and I would not
that ye should have fellowship with devils.

10:21 Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of devils: ye
cannot be partakers of the Lord's table, and of the table of devils.

10:22 Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?
10:23 All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient:
all things are lawful for me, but all things edify not.

10:24 Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth.

10:25 Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that eat, asking no question
for conscience sake: 10:26 For the earth is the Lord's, and the
fulness thereof.

10:27 If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be
disposed to go; whatsoever is set before you, eat, asking no question
for conscience sake.

10:28 But if any man say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto
idols, eat not for his sake that shewed it, and for conscience sake:
for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof: 10:29
Conscience, I say, not thine own, but of the other: for why is my
liberty judged of another man's conscience?  10:30 For if I by grace
be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give
thanks?  10:31 Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye
do, do all to the glory of God.

10:32 Give none offence, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor
to the church of God: 10:33 Even as I please all men in all things,
not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be
saved.

11:1 Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.

11:2 Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things,
and keep the ordinances, as I delivered them to you.

11:3 But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ;
and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.

11:4 Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered,
dishonoureth his head.

11:5 But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head
uncovered dishonoureth her head: for that is even all one as if she
were shaven.

11:6 For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn: but if it
be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered.

11:7 For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as he is
the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.

11:8 For the man is not of the woman: but the woman of the man.

11:9 Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the
man.

11:10 For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because
of the angels.

11:11 Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the
woman without the man, in the Lord.

11:12 For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the
woman; but all things of God.

11:13 Judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman pray unto God
uncovered?  11:14 Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a
man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?  11:15 But if a woman have
long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a
covering.

11:16 But if any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom,
neither the churches of God.

11:17 Now in this that I declare unto you I praise you not, that ye
come together not for the better, but for the worse.

11:18 For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear
that there be divisions among you; and I partly believe it.

11:19 For there must be also heresies among you, that they which are
approved may be made manifest among you.

11:20 When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to
eat the Lord's supper.

11:21 For in eating every one taketh before other his own supper: and
one is hungry, and another is drunken.

11:22 What? have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye
the church of God, and shame them that have not? What shall I say to
you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.

11:23 For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto
you, That the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took
bread: 11:24 And when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said,
Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in
remembrance of me.

11:25 After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped,
saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft
as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.

11:26 For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do
shew the Lord's death till he come.

11:27 Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of
the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the
Lord.

11:28 But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread,
and drink of that cup.

11:29 For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh
damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.

11:30 For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many
sleep.

11:31 For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.

11:32 But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we
should not be condemned with the world.

11:33 Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one
for another.

11:34 And if any man hunger, let him eat at home; that ye come not
together unto condemnation. And the rest will I set in order when I
come.

12:1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you
ignorant.

12:2 Ye know that ye were Gentiles, carried away unto these dumb
idols, even as ye were led.

12:3 Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the
Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that
Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.

12:4 Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.

12:5 And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.

12:6 And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God
which worketh all in all.

12:7 But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to
profit withal.

12:8 For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another
the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; 12:9 To another faith by the
same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; 12:10
To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another
discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another
the interpretation of tongues: 12:11 But all these worketh that one
and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will.

12:12 For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the
members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ.

12:13 For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we
be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all
made to drink into one Spirit.

12:14 For the body is not one member, but many.

12:15 If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of
the body; is it therefore not of the body?  12:16 And if the ear shall
say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore
not of the body?  12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where were the
hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?  12:18
But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it
hath pleased him.

12:19 And if they were all one member, where were the body?  12:20 But
now are they many members, yet but one body.

12:21 And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee:
nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.

12:22 Nay, much more those members of the body, which seem to be more
feeble, are necessary: 12:23 And those members of the body, which we
think to be less honourable, upon these we bestow more abundant
honour; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.

12:24 For our comely parts have no need: but God hath tempered the
body together, having given more abundant honour to that part which
lacked.

12:25 That there should be no schism in the body; but that the members
should have the same care one for another.

12:26 And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it;
or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it.

12:27 Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.

12:28 And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily
prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of
healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.

12:29 Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all
workers of miracles?  12:30 Have all the gifts of healing? do all
speak with tongues? do all interpret?  12:31 But covet earnestly the
best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.

13:1 Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have
not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.

13:2 And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I
could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.

13:3 And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I
give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me
nothing.

13:4 Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity
vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, 13:5 Doth not behave itself
unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no
evil; 13:6 Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; 13:7
Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth
all things.

13:8 Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they
shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there
be knowledge, it shall vanish away.

13:9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in part.

13:10 But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in
part shall be done away.

13:11 When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child,
I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish
things.

13:12 For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face:
now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.

13:13 And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the
greatest of these is charity.

14:1 Follow after charity, and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that
ye may prophesy.

14:2 For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men,
but unto God: for no man understandeth him; howbeit in the spirit he
speaketh mysteries.

14:3 But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification, and
exhortation, and comfort.

14:4 He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifieth himself; but he
that prophesieth edifieth the church.

14:5 I would that ye all spake with tongues but rather that ye
prophesied: for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh
with tongues, except he interpret, that the church may receive
edifying.

14:6 Now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what
shall I profit you, except I shall speak to you either by revelation,
or by knowledge, or by prophesying, or by doctrine?  14:7 And even
things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they
give a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped
or harped?  14:8 For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall
prepare himself to the battle?  14:9 So likewise ye, except ye utter
by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what
is spoken? for ye shall speak into the air.

14:10 There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and
none of them is without signification.

14:11 Therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be
unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh shall be a
barbarian unto me.

14:12 Even so ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek
that ye may excel to the edifying of the church.

14:13 Wherefore let him that speaketh in an unknown tongue pray that
he may interpret.

14:14 For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my
understanding is unfruitful.

14:15 What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray
with the understanding also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will
sing with the understanding also.

14:16 Else when thou shalt bless with the spirit, how shall he that
occupieth the room of the unlearned say Amen at thy giving of thanks,
seeing he understandeth not what thou sayest?  14:17 For thou verily
givest thanks well, but the other is not edified.

14:18 I thank my God, I speak with tongues more than ye all: 14:19 Yet
in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding,
that by my voice I might teach others also, than ten thousand words in
an unknown tongue.

14:20 Brethren, be not children in understanding: howbeit in malice be
ye children, but in understanding be men.

14:21 In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other
lips will I speak unto this people; and yet for all that will they not
hear me, saith the LORD.

14:22 Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but
to them that believe not: but prophesying serveth not for them that
believe not, but for them which believe.

14:23 If therefore the whole church be come together into one place,
and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are
unlearned, or unbelievers, will they not say that ye are mad?  14:24
But if all prophesy, and there come in one that believeth not, or one
unlearned, he is convinced of all, he is judged of all: 14:25 And thus
are the secrets of his heart made manifest; and so falling down on his
face he will worship God, and report that God is in you of a truth.

14:26 How is it then, brethren? when ye come together, every one of
you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation,
hath an interpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying.

14:27 If any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at
the most by three, and that by course; and let one interpret.

14:28 But if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the
church; and let him speak to himself, and to God.

14:29 Let the prophets speak two or three, and let the other judge.

14:30 If any thing be revealed to another that sitteth by, let the
first hold his peace.

14:31 For ye may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all
may be comforted.

14:32 And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.

14:33 For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all
churches of the saints.

14:34 Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not
permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under
obedience as also saith the law.

14:35 And if they will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at
home: for it is a shame for women to speak in the church.

14:36 What? came the word of God out from you? or came it unto you
only?  14:37 If any man think himself to be a prophet, or spiritual,
let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are the
commandments of the Lord.

14:38 But if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant.

14:39 Wherefore, brethren, covet to prophesy, and forbid not to speak
with tongues.

14:40 Let all things be done decently and in order.

15:1 Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I
preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand;
15:2 By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached
unto you, unless ye have believed in vain.

15:3 For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received,
how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; 15:4
And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according
to the scriptures: 15:5 And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the
twelve: 15:6 After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at
once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are
fallen asleep.

15:7 After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles.

15:8 And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due
time.

15:9 For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called
an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was
bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than
they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

15:11 Therefore whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye
believed.

15:12 Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say
some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead?  15:13 But
if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen:
15:14 And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your
faith is also vain.

15:15 Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have
testified of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if
so be that the dead rise not.

15:16 For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: 15:17 And
if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.

15:18 Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished.

15:19 If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men
most miserable.

15:20 But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the
firstfruits of them that slept.

15:21 For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection
of the dead.

15:22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made
alive.

15:23 But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits;
afterward they that are Christ's at his coming.

15:24 Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom
to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all
authority and power.

15:25 For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet.

15:26 The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.

15:27 For he hath put all things under his feet. But when he saith all
things are put under him, it is manifest that he is excepted, which
did put all things under him.

15:28 And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the
Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him,
that God may be all in all.

15:29 Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the
dead rise not at all? why are they then baptized for the dead?  15:30
And why stand we in jeopardy every hour?  15:31 I protest by your
rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our LORD, I die daily.

15:32 If after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus,
what advantageth it me, if the dead rise not? let us eat and drink;
for to morrow we die.

15:33 Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good manners.

15:34 Awake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the
knowledge of God: I speak this to your shame.

15:35 But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? and with what
body do they come?  15:36 Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not
quickened, except it die: 15:37 And that which thou sowest, thou
sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of
wheat, or of some other grain: 15:38 But God giveth it a body as it
hath pleased him, and to every seed his own body.

15:39 All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one kind of flesh
of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of
birds.

15:40 There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the
glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is
another.

15:41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon,
and another glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another
star in glory.

15:42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in
corruption; it is raised in incorruption: 15:43 It is sown in
dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised
in power: 15:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual
body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.

15:45 And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul;
the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.

15:46 Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is
natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.

15:47 The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the
Lord from heaven.

15:48 As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is
the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.

15:49 And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear
the image of the heavenly.

15:50 Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit
the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption.

15:51 Behold, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we
shall all be changed, 15:52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye,
at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be
raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.

15:53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal
must put on immortality.

15:54 So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and
this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to
pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.

15:55 O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?
15:56 The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law.

15:57 But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our
Lord Jesus Christ.

15:58 Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmoveable,
always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that
your labour is not in vain in the Lord.

16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given
order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye.

16:2 Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in
store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I
come.

16:3 And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters,
them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem.

16:4 And if it be meet that I go also, they shall go with me.

16:5 Now I will come unto you, when I shall pass through Macedonia:
for I do pass through Macedonia.

16:6 And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that
ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go.

16:7 For I will not see you now by the way; but I trust to tarry a
while with you, if the Lord permit.

16:8 But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.

16:9 For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are
many adversaries.

16:10 Now if Timotheus come, see that he may be with you without fear:
for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.

16:11 Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in
peace, that he may come unto me: for I look for him with the brethren.

16:12 As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come
unto you with the brethren: but his will was not at all to come at
this time; but he will come when he shall have convenient time.

16:13 Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong.

16:14 Let all your things be done with charity.

16:15 I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that
it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted
themselves to the ministry of the saints,) 16:16 That ye submit
yourselves unto such, and to every one that helpeth with us, and
laboureth.

16:17 I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and
Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied.

16:18 For they have refreshed my spirit and your's: therefore
acknowledge ye them that are such.

16:19 The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you
much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.

16:20 All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with
an holy kiss.

16:21 The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand.

16:22 If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be
Anathema Maranatha.

16:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.



The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians


1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy
our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the
saints which are in all Achaia: 1:2 Grace be to you and peace from God
our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3 Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort; 1:4 Who comforteth us
in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are
in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of
God.

1:5 For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation
also aboundeth by Christ.

1:6 And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and
salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings
which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your
consolation and salvation.

1:7 And our hope of you is stedfast, knowing, that as ye are partakers
of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.

1:8 For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which
came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above
strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life: 1:9 But we had the
sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves,
but in God which raiseth the dead: 1:10 Who delivered us from so great
a death, and doth deliver: in whom we trust that he will yet deliver
us; 1:11 Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift
bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by
many on our behalf.

1:12 For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that
in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the
grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and more
abundantly to you-ward.

1:13 For we write none other things unto you, than what ye read or
acknowledge; and I trust ye shall acknowledge even to the end; 1:14 As
also ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, even
as ye also are our's in the day of the Lord Jesus.

1:15 And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before, that
ye might have a second benefit; 1:16 And to pass by you into
Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you to
be brought on my way toward Judaea.

1:17 When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? or the
things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with
me there should be yea yea, and nay nay?  1:18 But as God is true, our
word toward you was not yea and nay.

1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by
us, even by me and Silvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but in
him was yea.

1:20 For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen, unto
the glory of God by us.

1:21 Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed
us, is God; 1:22 Who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of the
Spirit in our hearts.

1:23 Moreover I call God for a record upon my soul, that to spare you
I came not as yet unto Corinth.

1:24 Not for that we have dominion over your faith, but are helpers of
your joy: for by faith ye stand.

2:1 But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again to
you in heaviness.

2:2 For if I make you sorry, who is he then that maketh me glad, but
the same which is made sorry by me?  2:3 And I wrote this same unto
you, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought
to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of
you all.

2:4 For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you
with many tears; not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might know
the love which I have more abundantly unto you.

2:5 But if any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in part:
that I may not overcharge you all.

2:6 Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflicted
of many.

2:7 So that contrariwise ye ought rather to forgive him, and comfort
him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch
sorrow.

2:8 Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your love toward
him.

2:9 For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of
you, whether ye be obedient in all things.

2:10 To whom ye forgive any thing, I forgive also: for if I forgave
any thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in the
person of Christ; 2:11 Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for
we are not ignorant of his devices.

2:12 Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel, and
a door was opened unto me of the Lord, 2:13 I had no rest in my
spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of
them, I went from thence into Macedonia.

2:14 Now thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph in
Christ, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every
place.

2:15 For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that are
saved, and in them that perish: 2:16 To the one we are the savour of
death unto death; and to the other the savour of life unto life. And
who is sufficient for these things?  2:17 For we are not as many,
which corrupt the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in
the sight of God speak we in Christ.

3:1 Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or need we, as some
others, epistles of commendation to you, or letters of commendation
from you?  3:2 Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and
read of all men: 3:3 Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be the
epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the
Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables
of the heart.

3:4 And such trust have we through Christ to God-ward: 3:5 Not that we
are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but
our sufficiency is of God; 3:6 Who also hath made us able ministers of
the new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the
letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.

3:7 But if the ministration of death, written and engraven in stones,
was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not stedfastly
behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance; which glory
was to be done away: 3:8 How shall not the ministration of the spirit
be rather glorious?  3:9 For if the ministration of condemnation be
glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in
glory.

3:10 For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this
respect, by reason of the glory that excelleth.

3:11 For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which
remaineth is glorious.

3:12 Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of
speech: 3:13 And not as Moses, which put a vail over his face, that
the children of Israel could not stedfastly look to the end of that
which is abolished: 3:14 But their minds were blinded: for until this
day remaineth the same vail untaken away in the reading of the old
testament; which vail is done away in Christ.

3:15 But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the vail is upon
their heart.

3:16 Nevertheless when it shall turn to the Lord, the vail shall be
taken away.

3:17 Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is,
there is liberty.

3:18 But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of
the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as
by the Spirit of the LORD.

4:1 Therefore seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy,
we faint not; 4:2 But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty,
not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully;
but by manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man's
conscience in the sight of God.

4:3 But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost: 4:4 In
whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which
believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is
the image of God, should shine unto them.

4:5 For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord; and
ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake.

4:6 For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath
shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory
of God in the face of Jesus Christ.

4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency
of the power may be of God, and not of us.

4:8 We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are
perplexed, but not in despair; 4:9 Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast
down, but not destroyed; 4:10 Always bearing about in the body the
dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made
manifest in our body.

4:11 For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake,
that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal
flesh.

4:12 So then death worketh in us, but life in you.

4:13 We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I
believed, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore
speak; 4:14 Knowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise
up us also by Jesus, and shall present us with you.

4:15 For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace might
through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God.

4:16 For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish,
yet the inward man is renewed day by day.

4:17 For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for
us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory; 4:18 While we
look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not
seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which
are not seen are eternal.

5:1 For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were
dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens.

5:2 For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with
our house which is from heaven: 5:3 If so be that being clothed we
shall not be found naked.

5:4 For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not
for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might
be swallowed up of life.

5:5 Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who
also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit.

5:6 Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at
home in the body, we are absent from the Lord: 5:7 (For we walk by
faith, not by sight:) 5:8 We are confident, I say, and willing rather
to be absent from the body, and to be present with the Lord.

5:9 Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may be
accepted of him.

5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that
every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that
he hath done, whether it be good or bad.

5:11 Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we
are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your
consciences.

5:12 For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you
occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answer
them which glory in appearance, and not in heart.

5:13 For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God: or whether we
be sober, it is for your cause.

5:14 For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge,
that if one died for all, then were all dead: 5:15 And that he died
for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto
themselves, but unto him which died for them, and rose again.

5:16 Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh: yea, though
we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him
no more.

5:17 Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old
things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.

5:18 And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by
Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
5:19 To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto
himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed
unto us the word of reconciliation.

5:20 Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech
you by us: we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.

5:21 For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we
might be made the righteousness of God in him.

6:1 We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye
receive not the grace of God in vain.

6:2 (For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the
day of salvation have I succoured thee: behold, now is the accepted
time; behold, now is the day of salvation.)  6:3 Giving no offence in
any thing, that the ministry be not blamed: 6:4 But in all things
approving ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in
afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, 6:5 In stripes, in
imprisonments, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings; 6:6
By pureness, by knowledge, by longsuffering, by kindness, by the Holy
Ghost, by love unfeigned, 6:7 By the word of truth, by the power of
God, by the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
6:8 By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report: as
deceivers, and yet true; 6:9 As unknown, and yet well known; as dying,
and, behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed; 6:10 As sorrowful,
yet alway rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing,
and yet possessing all things.

6:11 O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heart is
enlarged.

6:12 Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your own
bowels.

6:13 Now for a recompence in the same, (I speak as unto my children,)
be ye also enlarged.

6:14 Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what
fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion
hath light with darkness?  6:15 And what concord hath Christ with
Belial? or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel?  6:16 And
what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? for ye are the
temple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them, and
walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.

6:17 Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the
Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.

6:18 And will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and
daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.

7:1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse
ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting
holiness in the fear of God.

7:2 Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, we
have defrauded no man.

7:3 I speak not this to condemn you: for I have said before, that ye
are in our hearts to die and live with you.

7:4 Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying of
you: I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all our
tribulation.

7:5 For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but
we were troubled on every side; without were fightings, within were
fears.

7:6 Nevertheless God, that comforteth those that are cast down,
comforted us by the coming of Titus; 7:7 And not by his coming only,
but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you, when he told
us your earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me; so
that I rejoiced the more.

7:8 For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though
I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made you
sorry, though it were but for a season.

7:9 Now I rejoice, not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed
to repentance: for ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye
might receive damage by us in nothing.

7:10 For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be
repented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh death.

7:11 For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly
sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of
yourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement
desire, yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge! In all things ye have
approved yourselves to be clear in this matter.

7:12 Wherefore, though I wrote unto you, I did it not for his cause
that had done the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered wrong, but
that our care for you in the sight of God might appear unto you.

7:13 Therefore we were comforted in your comfort: yea, and exceedingly
the more joyed we for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was
refreshed by you all.

7:14 For if I have boasted any thing to him of you, I am not ashamed;
but as we spake all things to you in truth, even so our boasting,
which I made before Titus, is found a truth.

7:15 And his inward affection is more abundant toward you, whilst he
remembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling ye
received him.

7:16 I rejoice therefore that I have confidence in you in all things.

8:1 Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed
on the churches of Macedonia; 8:2 How that in a great trial of
affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded
unto the riches of their liberality.

8:3 For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power
they were willing of themselves; 8:4 Praying us with much intreaty
that we would receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowship of the
ministering to the saints.

8:5 And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own
selves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God.

8:6 Insomuch that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he would
also finish in you the same grace also.

8:7 Therefore, as ye abound in every thing, in faith, and utterance,
and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that
ye abound in this grace also.

8:8 I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of
others, and to prove the sincerity of your love.

8:9 For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he
was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his
poverty might be rich.

8:10 And herein I give my advice: for this is expedient for you, who
have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago.

8:11 Now therefore perform the doing of it; that as there was a
readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that
which ye have.

8:12 For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to
that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.

8:13 For I mean not that other men be eased, and ye burdened: 8:14 But
by an equality, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply
for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for your
want: that there may be equality: 8:15 As it is written, He that had
gathered much had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had no
lack.

8:16 But thanks be to God, which put the same earnest care into the
heart of Titus for you.

8:17 For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more forward,
of his own accord he went unto you.

8:18 And we have sent with him the brother, whose praise is in the
gospel throughout all the churches; 8:19 And not that only, but who
was also chosen of the churches to travel with us with this grace,
which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord, and
declaration of your ready mind: 8:20 Avoiding this, that no man should
blame us in this abundance which is administered by us: 8:21 Providing
for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the
sight of men.

8:22 And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have oftentimes
proved diligent in many things, but now much more diligent, upon the
great confidence which I have in you.

8:23 Whether any do enquire of Titus, he is my partner and
fellowhelper concerning you: or our brethren be enquired of, they are
the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ.

8:24 Wherefore shew ye to them, and before the churches, the proof of
your love, and of our boasting on your behalf.

9:1 For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous
for me to write to you: 9:2 For I know the forwardness of your mind,
for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was ready a
year ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many.

9:3 Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should be
in vain in this behalf; that, as I said, ye may be ready: 9:4 Lest
haply if they of Macedonia come with me, and find you unprepared, we
(that we say not, ye) should be ashamed in this same confident
boasting.

9:5 Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, that they
would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereof
ye had notice before, that the same might be ready, as a matter of
bounty, and not as of covetousness.

9:6 But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also
sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also
bountifully.

9:7 Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give;
not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.

9:8 And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye,
always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good
work: 9:9 (As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad; he hath given
to the poor: his righteousness remaineth for ever.

9:10 Now he that ministereth seed to the sower both minister bread for
your food, and multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits of
your righteousness;) 9:11 Being enriched in every thing to all
bountifulness, which causeth through us thanksgiving to God.

9:12 For the administration of this service not only supplieth the
want of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto
God; 9:13 Whiles by the experiment of this ministration they glorify
God for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ, and for
your liberal distribution unto them, and unto all men; 9:14 And by
their prayer for you, which long after you for the exceeding grace of
God in you.

9:15 Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift.

10:1 Now I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of
Christ, who in presence am base among you, but being absent am bold
toward you: 10:2 But I beseech you, that I may not be bold when I am
present with that confidence, wherewith I think to be bold against
some, which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh.

10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh:
10:4 (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty
through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) 10:5 Casting down
imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the
knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the
obedience of Christ; 10:6 And having in a readiness to revenge all
disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.

10:7 Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any man
trust to himself that he is Christ's, let him of himself think this
again, that, as he is Christ's, even so are we Christ's.

10:8 For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which
the Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction,
I should not be ashamed: 10:9 That I may not seem as if I would
terrify you by letters.

10:10 For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful; but his
bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible.

10:11 Let such an one think this, that, such as we are in word by
letters when we are absent, such will we be also in deed when we are
present.

10:12 For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare
ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring
themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves,
are not wise.

10:13 But we will not boast of things without our measure, but
according to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us,
a measure to reach even unto you.

10:14 For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we
reached not unto you: for we are come as far as to you also in
preaching the gospel of Christ: 10:15 Not boasting of things without
our measure, that is, of other men's labours; but having hope, when
your faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you according to
our rule abundantly, 10:16 To preach the gospel in the regions beyond
you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to
our hand.

10:17 But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.

10:18 For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the
Lord commendeth.

11:1 Would to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly: and
indeed bear with me.

11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I have
espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin
to Christ.

11:3 But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve
through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the
simplicity that is in Christ.

11:4 For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not
preached, or if ye receive another spirit, which ye have not received,
or another gospel, which ye have not accepted, ye might well bear with
him.

11:5 For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles.

11:6 But though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge; but we have
been throughly made manifest among you in all things.

11:7 Have I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might be
exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely?
11:8 I robbed other churches, taking wages of them, to do you service.

11:9 And when I was present with you, and wanted, I was chargeable to
no man: for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came from
Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from being
burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself.

11:10 As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this
boasting in the regions of Achaia.

11:11 Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.

11:12 But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from
them which desire occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be found
even as we.

11:13 For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming
themselves into the apostles of Christ.

11:14 And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of
light.

11:15 Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be
transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be
according to their works.

11:16 I say again, Let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as a
fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little.

11:17 That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord, but as it
were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.

11:18 Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also.

11:19 For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise.

11:20 For ye suffer, if a man bring you into bondage, if a man devour
you, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite you
on the face.

11:21 I speak as concerning reproach, as though we had been weak.
Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold
also.

11:22 Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are
they the seed of Abraham? so am I.

11:23 Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in
labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more
frequent, in deaths oft.

11:24 Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one.

11:25 Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I
suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; 11:26
In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in
perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in
the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils
among false brethren; 11:27 In weariness and painfulness, in watchings
often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.

11:28 Beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon me
daily, the care of all the churches.

11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is offended, and I burn not?
11:30 If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern
mine infirmities.

11:31 The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed
for evermore, knoweth that I lie not.

11:32 In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king kept the city of
the Damascenes with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me: 11:33 And
through a window in a basket was I let down by the wall, and escaped
his hands.

12:1 It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come to
visions and revelations of the Lord.

12:2 I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the
body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God
knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven.

12:3 And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body,
I cannot tell: God knoweth;) 12:4 How that he was caught up into
paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a
man to utter.

12:5 Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but
in mine infirmities.

12:6 For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I
will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me
above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.

12:7 And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance
of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the
messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above
measure.

12:8 For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart
from me.

12:9 And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my
strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I
rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon
me.

12:10 Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in
necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for
when I am weak, then am I strong.

12:11 I am become a fool in glorying; ye have compelled me: for I
ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing am I behind the
very chiefest apostles, though I be nothing.

12:12 Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all
patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds.

12:13 For what is it wherein ye were inferior to other churches,
except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you? forgive me this
wrong.

12:14 Behold, the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not
be burdensome to you: for I seek not your's but you: for the children
ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children.

12:15 And I will very gladly spend and be spent for you; though the
more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.

12:16 But be it so, I did not burden you: nevertheless, being crafty,
I caught you with guile.

12:17 Did I make a gain of you by any of them whom I sent unto you?
12:18 I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make a
gain of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in the
same steps?  12:19 Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you?
we speak before God in Christ: but we do all things, dearly beloved,
for your edifying.

12:20 For I fear, lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as I
would, and that I shall be found unto you such as ye would not: lest
there be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes, backbitings, whisperings,
swellings, tumults: 12:21 And lest, when I come again, my God will
humble me among you, and that I shall bewail many which have sinned
already, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and
lasciviousness which they have committed.

13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two or
three witnesses shall every word be established.

13:2 I told you before, and foretell you, as if I were present, the
second time; and being absent now I write to them which heretofore
have sinned, and to all other, that, if I come again, I will not
spare: 13:3 Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which to
you-ward is not weak, but is mighty in you.

13:4 For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by
the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with
him by the power of God toward you.

13:5 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own
selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you,
except ye be reprobates?  13:6 But I trust that ye shall know that we
are not reprobates.

13:7 Now I pray to God that ye do no evil; not that we should appear
approved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we be as
reprobates.

13:8 For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.

13:9 For we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and this
also we wish, even your perfection.

13:10 Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being present
I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hath
given me to edification, and not to destruction.

13:11 Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be
of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be
with you.

13:12 Greet one another with an holy kiss.

13:13 All the saints salute you.

13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Galatians


1:1 Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus
Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;) 1:2 And all
the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia: 1:3
Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus
Christ, 1:4 Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us
from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our
Father: 1:5 To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

1:6 I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into
the grace of Christ unto another gospel: 1:7 Which is not another; but
there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of
Christ.

1:8 But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel
unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be
accursed.

1:9 As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other
gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.

1:10 For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men?
for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.

1:11 But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached
of me is not after man.

1:12 For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by
the revelation of Jesus Christ.

1:13 For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews'
religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and
wasted it: 1:14 And profited in the Jews' religion above many my
equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the
traditions of my fathers.

1:15 But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb,
and called me by his grace, 1:16 To reveal his Son in me, that I might
preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh
and blood: 1:17 Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were
apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto
Damascus.

1:18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and
abode with him fifteen days.

1:19 But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's
brother.

1:20 Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie
not.

1:21 Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia; 1:22 And
was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ:
1:23 But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times
past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed.

1:24 And they glorified God in me.

2:1 Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with
Barnabas, and took Titus with me also.

2:2 And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that
gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which
were of reputation, lest by any means I should run, or had run, in
vain.

2:3 But neither Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled
to be circumcised: 2:4 And that because of false brethren unawares
brought in, who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we have
in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage: 2:5 To whom we
gave place by subjection, no, not for an hour; that the truth of the
gospel might continue with you.

2:6 But of these who seemed to be somewhat, (whatsoever they were, it
maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man's person:) for they who
seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me: 2:7 But
contrariwise, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was
committed unto me, as the gospel of the circumcision was unto Peter;
2:8 (For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship of
the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles:) 2:9
And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived
the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas the
right hands of fellowship; that we should go unto the heathen, and
they unto the circumcision.

2:10 Only they would that we should remember the poor; the same which
I also was forward to do.

2:11 But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face,
because he was to be blamed.

2:12 For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the
Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself,
fearing them which were of the circumcision.

2:13 And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him; insomuch that
Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimulation.

2:14 But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the
truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being
a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews,
why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?  2:15 We who
are Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles, 2:16 Knowing that
a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of
Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be
justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: for
by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified.

2:17 But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves
also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God
forbid.

2:18 For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself
a transgressor.

2:19 For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto
God.

2:20 I am crucified with Christ: neverthless I live; yet not I, but
Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live
by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.

2:21 I do not frustrate the grace of God: for if righteousness come by
the law, then Christ is dead in vain.

3:1 O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not
obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set
forth, crucified among you?  3:2 This only would I learn of you,
Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of
faith?  3:3 Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now
made perfect by the flesh?  3:4 Have ye suffered so many things in
vain? if it be yet in vain.

3:5 He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh
miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the
hearing of faith?  3:6 Even as Abraham believed God, and it was
accounted to him for righteousness.

3:7 Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the
children of Abraham.

3:8 And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen
through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In
thee shall all nations be blessed.

3:9 So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.

3:10 For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse:
for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all
things which are written in the book of the law to do them.

3:11 But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it
is evident: for, The just shall live by faith.

3:12 And the law is not of faith: but, The man that doeth them shall
live in them.

3:13 Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a
curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a
tree: 3:14 That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles
through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit
through faith.

3:15 Brethren, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a
man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth
thereto.

3:16 Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not,
And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is
Christ.

3:17 And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of
God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after,
cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect.

3:18 For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise:
but God gave it to Abraham by promise.

3:19 Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of
transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was
made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.

3:20 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one.

3:21 Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if
there had been a law given which could have given life, verily
righteousness should have been by the law.

3:22 But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise
by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.

3:23 But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto
the faith which should afterwards be revealed.

3:24 Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ,
that we might be justified by faith.

3:25 But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a
schoolmaster.

3:26 For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.

3:27 For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on
Christ.

3:28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free,
there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.

3:29 And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs
according to the promise.

4:1 Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth
nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all; 4:2 But is under
tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father.

4:3 Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the
elements of the world: 4:4 But when the fulness of the time was come,
God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law, 4:5 To
redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the
adoption of sons.

4:6 And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son
into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.

4:7 Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son; and if a son,
then an heir of God through Christ.

4:8 Howbeit then, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which
by nature are no gods.

4:9 But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God,
how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye
desire again to be in bondage?  4:10 Ye observe days, and months, and
times, and years.

4:11 I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labour in vain.

4:12 Brethren, I beseech you, be as I am; for I am as ye are: ye have
not injured me at all.

4:13 Ye know how through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel
unto you at the first.

4:14 And my temptation which was in my flesh ye despised not, nor
rejected; but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus.

4:15 Where is then the blessedness ye spake of? for I bear you record,
that, if it had been possible, ye would have plucked out your own
eyes, and have given them to me.

4:16 Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?
4:17 They zealously affect you, but not well; yea, they would exclude
you, that ye might affect them.

4:18 But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing,
and not only when I am present with you.

4:19 My little children, of whom I travail in birth again until Christ
be formed in you, 4:20 I desire to be present with you now, and to
change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.

4:21 Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the
law?  4:22 For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one by a
bondmaid, the other by a freewoman.

4:23 But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he
of the freewoman was by promise.

4:24 Which things are an allegory: for these are the two covenants;
the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is
Agar.

4:25 For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to
Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children.

4:26 But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us
all.

4:27 For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break
forth and cry, thou that travailest not: for the desolate hath many
more children than she which hath an husband.

4:28 Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise.

4:29 But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that
was born after the Spirit, even so it is now.

4:30 Nevertheless what saith the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and
her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son
of the freewoman.

4:31 So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman, but of
the free.

5:1 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us
free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.

5:2 Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ
shall profit you nothing.

5:3 For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a
debtor to do the whole law.

5:4 Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are
justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.

5:5 For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by
faith.

5:6 For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor
uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love.

5:7 Ye did run well; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the
truth?  5:8 This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you.

5:9 A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.

5:10 I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none
otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment,
whosoever he be.

5:11 And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet
suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased.

5:12 I would they were even cut off which trouble you.

5:13 For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not
liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another.

5:14 For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

5:15 But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not
consumed one of another.

5:16 This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the
lust of the flesh.

5:17 For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against
the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye
cannot do the things that ye would.

5:18 But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.

5:19 Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these;
Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, 5:20 Idolatry,
witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions,
heresies, 5:21 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such
like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time
past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of
God.

5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering,
gentleness, goodness, faith, 5:23 Meekness, temperance: against such
there is no law.

5:24 And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the
affections and lusts.

5:25 If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.

5:26 Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another,
envying one another.

6:1 Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are
spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering
thyself, lest thou also be tempted.

6:2 Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.

6:3 For if a man think himself to be something, when he is nothing, he
deceiveth himself.

6:4 But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have
rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another.

6:5 For every man shall bear his own burden.

6:6 Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that
teacheth in all good things.

6:7 Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth,
that shall he also reap.

6:8 For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap
corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap
life everlasting.

6:9 And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall
reap, if we faint not.

6:10 As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men,
especially unto them who are of the household of faith.

6:11 Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own
hand.

6:12 As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they
constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer
persecution for the cross of Christ.

6:13 For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law; but
desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh.

6:14 But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord
Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the
world.

6:15 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor
uncircumcision, but a new creature.

6:16 And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and
mercy, and upon the Israel of God.

6:17 From henceforth let no man trouble me: for I bear in my body the
marks of the Lord Jesus.

6:18 Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.

Amen.



The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians


1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the
saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus:
1:2 Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord
Jesus Christ.

1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath
blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ:
1:4 According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the
world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love:
1:5 Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus
Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, 1:6 To
the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted
in the beloved.

1:7 In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of
sins, according to the riches of his grace; 1:8 Wherein he hath
abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence; 1:9 Having made known
unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which
he hath purposed in himself: 1:10 That in the dispensation of the
fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ,
both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him: 1:11 In
whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated
according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the
counsel of his own will: 1:12 That we should be to the praise of his
glory, who first trusted in Christ.

1:13 In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth,
the gospel of your salvation: in whom also after that ye believed, ye
were sealed with that holy Spirit of promise, 1:14 Which is the
earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased
possession, unto the praise of his glory.

1:15 Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus,
and love unto all the saints, 1:16 Cease not to give thanks for you,
making mention of you in my prayers; 1:17 That the God of our Lord
Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of
wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him: 1:18 The eyes of your
understanding being enlightened; that ye may know what is the hope of
his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in
the saints, 1:19 And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to
us-ward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power,
1:20 Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and
set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, 1:21 Far above
all principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name
that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to
come: 1:22 And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be
the head over all things to the church, 1:23 Which is his body, the
fulness of him that filleth all in all.

2:1 And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins;
2:2 Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this
world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit
that now worketh in the children of disobedience: 2:3 Among whom also
we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh,
fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind; and were by
nature the children of wrath, even as others.

2:4 But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he
loved us, 2:5 Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us
together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;) 2:6 And hath raised us
up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ
Jesus: 2:7 That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches
of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.

2:8 For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of
yourselves: it is the gift of God: 2:9 Not of works, lest any man
should boast.

2:10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good
works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.

2:11 Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles in the
flesh, who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called the
Circumcision in the flesh made by hands; 2:12 That at that time ye
were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and
strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without
God in the world: 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were
far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ.

2:14 For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down
the middle wall of partition between us; 2:15 Having abolished in his
flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in
ordinances; for to make in himself of twain one new man, so making
peace; 2:16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by
the cross, having slain the enmity thereby: 2:17 And came and preached
peace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh.

2:18 For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the
Father.

2:19 Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but
fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God; 2:20 And
are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus
Christ himself being the chief corner stone; 2:21 In whom all the
building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the
Lord: 2:22 In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of
God through the Spirit.

3:1 For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you
Gentiles, 3:2 If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God
which is given me to you-ward: 3:3 How that by revelation he made
known unto me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few words, 3:4
Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery
of Christ) 3:5 Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of
men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the
Spirit; 3:6 That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs, and of the same
body, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel: 3:7
Whereof I was made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of
God given unto me by the effectual working of his power.

3:8 Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace
given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches
of Christ; 3:9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the
mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God,
who created all things by Jesus Christ: 3:10 To the intent that now
unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known
by the church the manifold wisdom of God, 3:11 According to the
eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord: 3:12 In
whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him.

3:13 Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you,
which is your glory.

3:14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus
Christ, 3:15 Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named,
3:16 That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to
be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; 3:17 That
Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and
grounded in love, 3:18 May be able to comprehend with all saints what
is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; 3:19 And to know
the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled
with all the fulness of God.

3:20 Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all
that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, 3:21
Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages,
world without end. Amen.

4:1 I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk
worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, 4:2 With all lowliness
and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love; 4:3
Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.

4:4 There is one body, and one Spirit, even as ye are called in one
hope of your calling; 4:5 One Lord, one faith, one baptism, 4:6 One
God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you
all.

4:7 But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure
of the gift of Christ.

4:8 Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity
captive, and gave gifts unto men.

4:9 (Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first
into the lower parts of the earth?  4:10 He that descended is the same
also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all
things.)  4:11 And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and
some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; 4:12 For the
perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the
edifying of the body of Christ: 4:13 Till we all come in the unity of
the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man,
unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ: 4:14 That we
henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about
with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning
craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive; 4:15 But speaking the
truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head,
even Christ: 4:16 From whom the whole body fitly joined together and
compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the
effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the
body unto the edifying of itself in love.

4:17 This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth
walk not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind, 4:18
Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of
God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of
their heart: 4:19 Who being past feeling have given themselves over
unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness.

4:20 But ye have not so learned Christ; 4:21 If so be that ye have
heard him, and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus: 4:22
That ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which
is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts; 4:23 And be renewed in
the spirit of your mind; 4:24 And that ye put on the new man, which
after God is created in righteousness and true holiness.

4:25 Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his
neighbour: for we are members one of another.

4:26 Be ye angry, and sin not: let not the sun go down upon your
wrath: 4:27 Neither give place to the devil.

4:28 Let him that stole steal no more: but rather let him labour,
working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to
give to him that needeth.

4:29 Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that
which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto
the hearers.

4:30 And grieve not the holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto
the day of redemption.

4:31 Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil
speaking, be put away from you, with all malice: 4:32 And be ye kind
one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for
Christ's sake hath forgiven you.

5:1 Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; 5:2 And walk
in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us
an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.

5:3 But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not
be once named among you, as becometh saints; 5:4 Neither filthiness,
nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but rather
giving of thanks.

5:5 For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor
covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom
of Christ and of God.

5:6 Let no man deceive you with vain words: for because of these
things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience.

5:7 Be not ye therefore partakers with them.

5:8 For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord:
walk as children of light: 5:9 (For the fruit of the Spirit is in all
goodness and righteousness and truth;) 5:10 Proving what is acceptable
unto the Lord.

5:11 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but
rather reprove them.

5:12 For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of
them in secret.

5:13 But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light:
for whatsoever doth make manifest is light.

5:14 Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the
dead, and Christ shall give thee light.

5:15 See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
5:16 Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.

5:17 Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of
the Lord is.

5:18 And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with
the Spirit; 5:19 Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and
spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
5:20 Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in
the name of our Lord Jesus Christ; 5:21 Submitting yourselves one to
another in the fear of God.

5:22 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the
Lord.

5:23 For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the
head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.

5:24 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives
be to their own husbands in every thing.

5:25 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church,
and gave himself for it; 5:26 That he might sanctify and cleanse it
with the washing of water by the word, 5:27 That he might present it
to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such
thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.

5:28 So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that
loveth his wife loveth himself.

5:29 For no man ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and
cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church: 5:30 For we are members of
his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.

5:31 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall
be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.

5:32 This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and the
church.

5:33 Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wife
even as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband.

6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.

6:2 Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandment with
promise; 6:3 That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long
on the earth.

6:4 And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring
them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.

6:5 Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to
the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as
unto Christ; 6:6 Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as the
servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart; 6:7 With
good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men: 6:8 Knowing
that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of
the Lord, whether he be bond or free.

6:9 And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing
threatening: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is
there respect of persons with him.

6:10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of
his might.

6:11 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand
against the wiles of the devil.

6:12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of
this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.

6:13 Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be
able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.

6:14 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and
having on the breastplate of righteousness; 6:15 And your feet shod
with the preparation of the gospel of peace; 6:16 Above all, taking
the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the
fiery darts of the wicked.

6:17 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit,
which is the word of God: 6:18 Praying always with all prayer and
supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all
perseverance and supplication for all saints; 6:19 And for me, that
utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to
make known the mystery of the gospel, 6:20 For which I am an
ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to
speak.

6:21 But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, a
beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to
you all things: 6:22 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose,
that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts.

6:23 Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the
Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

6:24 Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in
sincerity.

Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Philippians


1:1 Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the
saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and
deacons: 1:2 Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and
from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, 1:4 Always in every
prayer of mine for you all making request with joy, 1:5 For your
fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now; 1:6 Being
confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in
you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ: 1:7 Even as it is
meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart;
inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of
the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.

1:8 For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the
bowels of Jesus Christ.

1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in
knowledge and in all judgment; 1:10 That ye may approve things that
are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day
of Christ.

1:11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus
Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.

1:12 But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which
happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the
gospel; 1:13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the
palace, and in all other places; 1:14 And many of the brethren in the
Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the
word without fear.

1:15 Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some also
of good will: 1:16 The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely,
supposing to add affliction to my bonds: 1:17 But the other of love,
knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.

1:18 What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in
truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will
rejoice.

1:19 For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your
prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, 1:20 According
to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be
ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ
shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.

1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.

1:22 But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet
what I shall choose I wot not.

1:23 For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and
to be with Christ; which is far better: 1:24 Nevertheless to abide in
the flesh is more needful for you.

1:25 And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and
continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith; 1:26 That
your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my
coming to you again.

1:27 Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of
Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear
of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind
striving together for the faith of the gospel; 1:28 And in nothing
terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of
perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.

1:29 For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to
believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake; 1:30 Having the same
conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.

2:1 If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of
love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, 2:2
Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being
of one accord, of one mind.

2:3 Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness
of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.

2:4 Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the
things of others.

2:5 Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: 2:6 Who,
being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
2:7 But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a
servant, and was made in the likeness of men: 2:8 And being found in
fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death,
even the death of the cross.

2:9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name
which is above every name: 2:10 That at the name of Jesus every knee
should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under
the earth; 2:11 And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ
is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

2:12 Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my
presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own
salvation with fear and trembling.

2:13 For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his
good pleasure.

2:14 Do all things without murmurings and disputings: 2:15 That ye may
be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the
midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights
in the world; 2:16 Holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice
in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured in
vain.

2:17 Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your
faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.

2:18 For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.

2:19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you,
that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.

2:20 For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for your
state.

2:21 For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.

2:22 But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he
hath served with me in the gospel.

2:23 Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see
how it will go with me.

2:24 But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly.

2:25 Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my
brother, and companion in labour, and fellowsoldier, but your
messenger, and he that ministered to my wants.

2:26 For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because
that ye had heard that he had been sick.

2:27 For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him;
and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon
sorrow.

2:28 I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see him
again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.

2:29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and hold
such in reputation: 2:30 Because for the work of Christ he was nigh
unto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service
toward me.

3:1 Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same
things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.

3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.

3:3 For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and
rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.

3:4 Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man
thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more: 3:5
Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of
Benjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee;
3:6 Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; touching the
righteousness which is in the law, blameless.

3:7 But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.

3:8 Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the
loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ,
3:9 And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is
of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the
righteousness which is of God by faith: 3:10 That I may know him, and
the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings,
being made conformable unto his death; 3:11 If by any means I might
attain unto the resurrection of the dead.

3:12 Not as though I had already attained, either were already
perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which
also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.

3:13 Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one
thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching
forth unto those things which are before, 3:14 I press toward the mark
for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

3:15 Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if
in any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto
you.

3:16 Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk by
the same rule, let us mind the same thing.

3:17 Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk
so as ye have us for an ensample.

3:18 (For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you
even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: 3:19
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is
in their shame, who mind earthly things.)  3:20 For our conversation
is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus
Christ: 3:21 Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned
like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is
able even to subdue all things unto himself.

4:1 Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and
crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved.

4:2 I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same
mind in the Lord.

4:3 And I intreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which
laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my
fellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.

4:4 Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice.

4:5 Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.

4:6 Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and
supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto
God.

4:7 And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep
your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.

4:8 Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things
are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure,
whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if
there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these
things.

4:9 Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard,
and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.

4:10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your
care of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were also careful, but ye
lacked opportunity.

4:11 Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in
whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content.

4:12 I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound: every
where and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be
hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.

4:13 I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

4:14 Notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye did communicate with
my affliction.

4:15 Now ye Philippians know also, that in the beginning of the
gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me
as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.

4:16 For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my
necessity.

4:17 Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound
to your account.

4:18 But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of
Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odour of a sweet
smell, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God.

4:19 But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in
glory by Christ Jesus.

4:20 Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

4:21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with
me greet you.

4:22 All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's
household.

4:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Colossians


1:1  Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God,
and Timotheus our brother, 1:2  To the saints and faithful brethren
in Christ which are at Colosse: Grace be unto you, and peace,
from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3  We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying
always for you,
1:4  Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye
have to all the saints,
1:5  For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard
before in the word of the truth of the gospel;
1:6  Which is come unto you, as it is in all the world; and bringeth forth
fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew the
grace of God in truth:
1:7  As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellowservant, who is for you
a faithful minister of Christ;
1:8  Who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit.

1:9  For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to
pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his
will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;
1:10  That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being
fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God;
1:11  Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto
all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
1:12  Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be
partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:
1:13  Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated
us into the kingdom of his dear Son:
1:14  In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of
sins:
1:15  Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every
creature:
1:16  For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are
in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or
principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him:
1:17  And he is before all things, and by him all things consist.

1:18  And he is the head of the body, the church: who is the beginning, the
firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence.

1:19  For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell;
1:20  And, having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to
reconcile all things unto himself; by him, I say, whether they be things in
earth, or things in heaven.

1:21  And you, that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by
wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled
1:22  In the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and
unblameable and unreproveable in his sight:
1:23  If ye continue in the faith grounded and settled, and be not moved
away from the hope of the gospel, which ye have heard, and which was preached
to every creature which is under heaven; whereof I Paul am made a minister;
1:24  Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that which is
behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is
the church:
1:25  Whereof I am made a minister, according to the dispensation of God
which is given to me for you, to fulfil the word of God;
1:26  Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations,
but now is made manifest to his saints:
1:27  To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this
mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory:
1:28  Whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every man in all
wisdom; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus:
1:29  Whereunto I also labour, striving according to his working, which
worketh in me mightily.

2:1  For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you, and for
them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh;
2:2  That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, and
unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the
acknowledgement of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ;
2:3  In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

2:4  And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words.

2:5  For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit,
joying and beholding your order, and the stedfastness of your faith in
Christ.

2:6  As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in
him:
2:7  Rooted and built up in him, and stablished in the faith, as ye have
been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.

2:8  Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit,
after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after
Christ.

2:9  For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.

2:10  And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and
power:
2:11  In whom also ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without
hands, in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision
of Christ:
2:12  Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him
through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.

2:13  And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your
flesh, hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all
trespasses;
2:14  Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which
was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross;
2:15  And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a shew of them
openly, triumphing over them in it.

2:16  Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of
an holyday, or of the new moon, or of the sabbath days:
2:17  Which are a shadow of things to come; but the body is of Christ.

2:18  Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and
worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which he hath not seen,
vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind,
2:19  And not holding the Head, from which all the body by joints and bands
having nourishment ministered, and knit together, increaseth with the
increase of God.

2:20  Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world,
why, as though living in the world, are ye subject to ordinances,
2:21  (Touch not; taste not; handle not;
2:22  Which all are to perish with the using;) after the commandments and
doctrines of men?
2:23  Which things have indeed a shew of wisdom in will worship, and
humility, and neglecting of the body: not in any honour to the satisfying
of the flesh.

3:1  If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above,
where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.

3:2  Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.

3:3  For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.

3:4  When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear
with him in glory.

3:5  Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication,
uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness,
which is idolatry:
3:6  For which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of
disobedience:
3:7  In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.

3:8  But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy,
filthy communication out of your mouth.

3:9  Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with
his deeds;
3:10  And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the
image of him that created him:
3:11  Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor
uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in
all.

3:12  Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of
mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;
3:13  Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a
quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.

3:14  And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of
perfectness.

3:15  And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye
are called in one body; and be ye thankful.

3:16  Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching
and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing
with grace in your hearts to the Lord.

3:17  And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord
Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

3:18  Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the
Lord.

3:19  Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.

3:20  Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing
unto the Lord.

3:21  Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be
discouraged.

3:22  Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not
with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God;
3:23  And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto
men;
3:24  Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the
inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.

3:25  But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath
done: and there is no respect of persons.

4:1  Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing
that ye also have a Master in heaven.

4:2  Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;
4:3  Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of
utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds:
4:4  That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.

4:5  Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.

4:6  Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may
know how ye ought to answer every man.

4:7  All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved
brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Lord:
4:8  Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know
your estate, and comfort your hearts;
4:9  With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They
shall make known unto you all things which are done here.

4:10  Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son
to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if he come unto you,
receive him;)
4:11  And Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These
only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort
unto me.

4:12  Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you,
always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and
complete in all the will of God.

4:13  For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them
that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.

4:14  Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.

4:15  Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the
church which is in his house.

4:16  And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also
in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from
Laodicea.

4:17  And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast
received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.

4:18  The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be
with you. Amen.




The First Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians


1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the
Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ:
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus
Christ.

1:2 We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in
our prayers; 1:3 Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, and
labour of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the
sight of God and our Father; 1:4 Knowing, brethren beloved, your
election of God.

1:5 For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power,
and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance; as ye know what manner
of men we were among you for your sake.

1:6 And ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, having received
the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost.

1:7 So that ye were ensamples to all that believe in Macedonia and
Achaia.

1:8 For from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only in
Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to God-ward
is spread abroad; so that we need not to speak any thing.

1:9 For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we had
unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and
true God; 1:10 And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised
from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come.

2:1 For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it
was not in vain: 2:2 But even after that we had suffered before, and
were shamefully entreated, as ye know, at Philippi, we were bold in
our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention.

2:3 For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in
guile: 2:4 But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the
gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, which trieth
our hearts.

2:5 For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor
a cloke of covetousness; God is witness: 2:6 Nor of men sought we
glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been
burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.

2:7 But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her
children: 2:8 So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing
to have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our
own souls, because ye were dear unto us.

2:9 For ye remember, brethren, our labour and travail: for labouring
night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we
preached unto you the gospel of God.

2:10 Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and
unblameably we behaved ourselves among you that believe: 2:11 As ye
know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a
father doth his children, 2:12 That ye would walk worthy of God, who
hath called you unto his kingdom and glory.

2:13 For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, when
ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it not
as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which
effectually worketh also in you that believe.

2:14 For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which
in Judaea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things
of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews: 2:15 Who both
killed the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us;
and they please not God, and are contrary to all men: 2:16 Forbidding
us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up their
sins alway: for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.

2:17 But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in
presence, not in heart, endeavoured the more abundantly to see your
face with great desire.

2:18 Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and
again; but Satan hindered us.

2:19 For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even
ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?  2:20 For
ye are our glory and joy.

3:1 Wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to
be left at Athens alone; 3:2 And sent Timotheus, our brother, and
minister of God, and our fellowlabourer in the gospel of Christ, to
establish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith: 3:3 That no
man should be moved by these afflictions: for yourselves know that we
are appointed thereunto.

3:4 For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we
should suffer tribulation; even as it came to pass, and ye know.

3:5 For this cause, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know
your faith, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and our
labour be in vain.

3:6 But now when Timotheus came from you unto us, and brought us good
tidings of your faith and charity, and that ye have good remembrance
of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also to see you: 3:7
Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction
and distress by your faith: 3:8 For now we live, if ye stand fast in
the Lord.

3:9 For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the
joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God; 3:10 Night and day
praying exceedingly that we might see your face, and might perfect
that which is lacking in your faith?  3:11 Now God himself and our
Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way unto you.

3:12 And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward
another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you: 3:13 To the end
he may stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even
our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his
saints.

4:1 Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the
Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to
please God, so ye would abound more and more.

4:2 For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus.

4:3 For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye
should abstain from fornication: 4:4 That every one of you should know
how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour; 4:5 Not in the
lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God: 4:6
That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: because
that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned
you and testified.

4:7 For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.

4:8 He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hath
also given unto us his holy Spirit.

4:9 But as touching brotherly love ye need not that I write unto you:
for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another.

4:10 And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all
Macedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and
more; 4:11 And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business,
and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you; 4:12 That ye may
walk honestly toward them that are without, and that ye may have lack
of nothing.

4:13 But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning
them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have
no hope.

4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them
also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.

4:15 For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which
are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent
them which are asleep.

4:16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with
the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in
Christ shall rise first: 4:17 Then we which are alive and remain shall
be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the
air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.

4:18 Wherefore comfort one another with these words.

5:1 But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I
write unto you.

5:2 For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh
as a thief in the night.

5:3 For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction
cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall
not escape.

5:4 But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should
overtake you as a thief.

5:5 Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we
are not of the night, nor of darkness.

5:6 Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be
sober.

5:7 For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken
are drunken in the night.

5:8 But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the
breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of
salvation.

5:9 For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by
our Lord Jesus Christ, 5:10 Who died for us, that, whether we wake or
sleep, we should live together with him.

5:11 Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another,
even as also ye do.

5:12 And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labour among
you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you; 5:13 And to
esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace
among yourselves.

5:14 Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort
the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men.

5:15 See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever follow
that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men.

5:16 Rejoice evermore.

5:17 Pray without ceasing.

5:18 In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ
Jesus concerning you.

5:19 Quench not the Spirit.

5:20 Despise not prophesyings.

5:21 Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.

5:22 Abstain from all appearance of evil.

5:23 And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God
your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

5:24 Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it.

5:25 Brethren, pray for us.

5:26 Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss.

5:27 I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the
holy brethren.

5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.




The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians


1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the
Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: 1:2 Grace
unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3 We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet,
because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every
one of you all toward each other aboundeth; 1:4 So that we ourselves
glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all
your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure: 1:5 Which is a
manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may be
counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer: 1:6
Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to
them that trouble you; 1:7 And to you who are troubled rest with us,
when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty
angels, 1:8 In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not
God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ: 1:9 Who
shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of
the Lord, and from the glory of his power; 1:10 When he shall come to
be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe
(because our testimony among you was believed) in that day.

1:11 Wherefore also we pray always for you, that our God would count
you worthy of this calling, and fulfil all the good pleasure of his
goodness, and the work of faith with power: 1:12 That the name of our
Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to
the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.

2:1 Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ, and by our gathering together unto him, 2:2 That ye be not
soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word,
nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand.

2:3 Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come,
except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be
revealed, the son of perdition; 2:4 Who opposeth and exalteth himself
above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God
sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that he is God.

2:5 Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these
things?  2:6 And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be
revealed in his time.

2:7 For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now
letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.

2:8 And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall
consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the
brightness of his coming: 2:9 Even him, whose coming is after the
working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, 2:10 And
with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish;
because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be
saved.

2:11 And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they
should believe a lie: 2:12 That they all might be damned who believed
not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.

2:13 But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren
beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to
salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the
truth: 2:14 Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of
the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

2:15 Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye
have been taught, whether by word, or our epistle.

2:16 Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even our Father,
which hath loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation and
good hope through grace, 2:17 Comfort your hearts, and stablish you in
every good word and work.

3:1 Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have
free course, and be glorified, even as it is with you: 3:2 And that we
may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men: for all men have
not faith.

3:3 But the Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keep you
from evil.

3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye both do
and will do the things which we command you.

3:5 And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the
patient waiting for Christ.

3:6 Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus
Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh
disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us.

3:7 For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us: for we behaved not
ourselves disorderly among you; 3:8 Neither did we eat any man's bread
for nought; but wrought with labour and travail night and day, that we
might not be chargeable to any of you: 3:9 Not because we have not
power, but to make ourselves an ensample unto you to follow us.

3:10 For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if
any would not work, neither should he eat.

3:11 For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly,
working not at all, but are busybodies.

3:12 Now them that are such we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus
Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.

3:13 But ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing.

3:14 And if any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man,
and have no company with him, that he may be ashamed.

3:15 Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.

3:16 Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means.
The Lord be with you all.

3:17 The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in
every epistle: so I write.

3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.




The First Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy


1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our
Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope; 1:2 Unto Timothy,
my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father
and Jesus Christ our Lord.

1:3 As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into
Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other
doctrine, 1:4 Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies,
which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in
faith: so do.

1:5 Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and
of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned: 1:6 From which some
having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling; 1:7 Desiring to
be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor
whereof they affirm.

1:8 But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully; 1:9
Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for
the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for
unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers,
for manslayers, 1:10 For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves
with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if
there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine; 1:11
According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was
committed to my trust.

1:12 And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that
he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry; 1:13 Who was
before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained
mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.

1:14 And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and
love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:15 This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief.

1:16 Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus
Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which
should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.

1:17 Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise
God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

1:18 This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the
prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a
good warfare; 1:19 Holding faith, and a good conscience; which some
having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck: 1:20 Of whom is
Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they
may learn not to blaspheme.

2:1 I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers,
intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; 2:2 For
kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and
peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

2:3 For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour;
2:4 Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge
of the truth.

2:5 For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the
man Christ Jesus; 2:6 Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be
testified in due time.

2:7 Whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak the
truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and
verity.

2:8 I will therefore that men pray every where, lifting up holy hands,
without wrath and doubting.

2:9 In like manner also, that women adorn themselves in modest
apparel, with shamefacedness and sobriety; not with broided hair, or
gold, or pearls, or costly array; 2:10 But (which becometh women
professing godliness) with good works.

2:11 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.

2:12 But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over
the man, but to be in silence.

2:13 For Adam was first formed, then Eve.

2:14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in
the transgression.

2:15 Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing, if they
continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety.

3:1 This is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop, he
desireth a good work.

3:2 A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife,
vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to
teach; 3:3 Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre;
but patient, not a brawler, not covetous; 3:4 One that ruleth well his
own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity; 3:5
(For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take
care of the church of God?)  3:6 Not a novice, lest being lifted up
with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil.

3:7 Moreover he must have a good report of them which are without;
lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.

3:8 Likewise must the deacons be grave, not doubletongued, not given
to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre; 3:9 Holding the mystery of
the faith in a pure conscience.

3:10 And let these also first be proved; then let them use the office
of a deacon, being found blameless.

3:11 Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober,
faithful in all things.

3:12 Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their
children and their own houses well.

3:13 For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase to
themselves a good degree, and great boldness in the faith which is in
Christ Jesus.

3:14 These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly:
3:15 But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to
behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living
God, the pillar and ground of the truth.

3:16 And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God
was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels,
preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into
glory.

4:1 Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and
doctrines of devils; 4:2 Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their
conscience seared with a hot iron; 4:3 Forbidding to marry, and
commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be
received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth.

4:4 For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if
it be received with thanksgiving: 4:5 For it is sanctified by the word
of God and prayer.

4:6 If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou
shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of
faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained.

4:7 But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself
rather unto godliness.

4:8 For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable
unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that
which is to come.

4:9 This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation.

4:10 For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we
trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of
those that believe.

4:11 These things command and teach.

4:12 Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the
believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith,
in purity.

4:13 Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to
doctrine.

4:14 Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by
prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

4:15 Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy
profiting may appear to all.

4:16 Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them:
for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself, and them that hear
thee.

5:1 Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father; and the younger
men as brethren; 5:2 The elder women as mothers; the younger as
sisters, with all purity.

5:3 Honour widows that are widows indeed.

5:4 But if any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to
shew piety at home, and to requite their parents: for that is good and
acceptable before God.

5:5 Now she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and
continueth in supplications and prayers night and day.

5:6 But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.

5:7 And these things give in charge, that they may be blameless.

5:8 But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his
own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.

5:9 Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore years
old, having been the wife of one man.

5:10 Well reported of for good works; if she have brought up children,
if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if
she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every
good work.

5:11 But the younger widows refuse: for when they have begun to wax
wanton against Christ, they will marry; 5:12 Having damnation, because
they have cast off their first faith.

5:13 And withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to
house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking
things which they ought not.

5:14 I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children,
guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak
reproachfully.

5:15 For some are already turned aside after Satan.

5:16 If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve
them, and let not the church be charged; that it may relieve them that
are widows indeed.

5:17 Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour,
especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.

5:18 For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that
treadeth out the corn. And, The labourer is worthy of his reward.

5:19 Against an elder receive not an accusation, but before two or
three witnesses.

5:20 Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear.

5:21 I charge thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the
elect angels, that thou observe these things without preferring one
before another, doing nothing by partiality.

5:22 Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men's
sins: keep thyself pure.

5:23 Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's
sake and thine often infirmities.

5:24 Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment;
and some men they follow after.

5:25 Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand; and
they that are otherwise cannot be hid.

6:1 Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters
worthy of all honour, that the name of God and his doctrine be not
blasphemed.

6:2 And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them,
because they are brethren; but rather do them service, because they
are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach
and exhort.

6:3 If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words,
even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is
according to godliness; 6:4 He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting
about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife,
railings, evil surmisings, 6:5 Perverse disputings of men of corrupt
minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness:
from such withdraw thyself.

6:6 But godliness with contentment is great gain.

6:7 For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can
carry nothing out.

6:8 And having food and raiment let us be therewith content.

6:9 But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and
into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction
and perdition.

6:10 For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some
coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves
through with many sorrows.

6:11 But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after
righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.

6:12 Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life,
whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession
before many witnesses.

6:13 I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all
things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a
good confession; 6:14 That thou keep this commandment without spot,
unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ: 6:15 Which
in his times he shall shew, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the
King of kings, and Lord of lords; 6:16 Who only hath immortality,
dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto; whom no man hath
seen, nor can see: to whom be honour and power everlasting. Amen.

6:17 Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not
highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who
giveth us richly all things to enjoy; 6:18 That they do good, that
they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to
communicate; 6:19 Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation
against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.

6:20 O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding
profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so
called: 6:21 Which some professing have erred concerning the faith.
Grace be with thee. Amen.




The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy


1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to
the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, 1:2 To Timothy,
my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father
and Christ Jesus our Lord.

1:3 I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure
conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my
prayers night and day; 1:4 Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful
of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy; 1:5 When I call to
remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in
thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that
in thee also.

1:6 Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of
God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.

1:7 For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of
love, and of a sound mind.

1:8 Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of
me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel
according to the power of God; 1:9 Who hath saved us, and called us
with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his
own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the
world began, 1:10 But is now made manifest by the appearing of our
Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life
and immortality to light through the gospel: 1:11 Whereunto I am
appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.

1:12 For the which cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I am
not ashamed: for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he
is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day.

1:13 Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me,
in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:14 That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy
Ghost which dwelleth in us.

1:15 This thou knowest, that all they which are in Asia be turned away
from me; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.

1:16 The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus; for he oft
refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain: 1:17 But, when he was
in Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.

1:18 The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in
that day: and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus,
thou knowest very well.

2:1 Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ
Jesus.

2:2 And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses,
the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach
others also.

2:3 Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.

2:4 No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this
life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier.

2:5 And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned,
except he strive lawfully.

2:6 The husbandman that laboureth must be first partaker of the
fruits.

2:7 Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in all
things.

2:8 Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from
the dead according to my gospel: 2:9 Wherein I suffer trouble, as an
evil doer, even unto bonds; but the word of God is not bound.

2:10 Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sakes, that they
may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal
glory.

2:11 It is a faithful saying: For if we be dead with him, we shall
also live with him: 2:12 If we suffer, we shall also reign with him:
if we deny him, he also will deny us: 2:13 If we believe not, yet he
abideth faithful: he cannot deny himself.

2:14 Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the
Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the
subverting of the hearers.

2:15 Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth
not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

2:16 But shun profane and vain babblings: for they will increase unto
more ungodliness.

2:17 And their word will eat as doth a canker: of whom is Hymenaeus
and Philetus; 2:18 Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that
the resurrection is past already; and overthrow the faith of some.

2:19 Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this
seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that
nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.

2:20 But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of
silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honour, and some to
dishonour.

2:21 If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel
unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and prepared
unto every good work.

2:22 Flee also youthful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith,
charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.

2:23 But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do
gender strifes.

2:24 And the servant of the Lord must not strive; but be gentle unto
all men, apt to teach, patient, 2:25 In meekness instructing those
that oppose themselves; if God peradventure will give them repentance
to the acknowledging of the truth; 2:26 And that they may recover
themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him
at his will.

3:1 This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.

3:2 For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters,
proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, 3:3
Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent,
fierce, despisers of those that are good, 3:4 Traitors, heady,
highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; 3:5 Having a
form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away.

3:6 For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead
captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts, 3:7
Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.

3:8 Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist
the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith.

3:9 But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be
manifest unto all men, as their's also was.

3:10 But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose,
faith, longsuffering, charity, patience, 3:11 Persecutions,
afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra;
what persecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered
me.

3:12 Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer
persecution.

3:13 But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving,
and being deceived.

3:14 But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast
been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; 3:15 And that
from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to
make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.

3:16 All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable
for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in
righteousness: 3:17 That the man of God may be perfect, throughly
furnished unto all good works.

4:1 I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who
shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom;
4:2 Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove,
rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.

4:3 For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine;
but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers,
having itching ears; 4:4 And they shall turn away their ears from the
truth, and shall be turned unto fables.

4:5 But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of
an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.

4:6 For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is
at hand.

4:7 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept
the faith: 4:8 Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at
that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his
appearing.

4:9 Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me: 4:10 For Demas hath
forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto
Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus unto Dalmatia.

4:11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for he
is profitable to me for the ministry.

4:12 And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus.

4:13 The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest,
bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.

4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord reward him
according to his works: 4:15 Of whom be thou ware also; for he hath
greatly withstood our words.

4:16 At my first answer no man stood with me, but all men forsook me:
I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge.

4:17 Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, and strengthened me; that
by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles
might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.

4:18 And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will
preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be glory for ever and
ever. Amen.

4:19 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.

4:20 Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum
sick.

4:21 Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee,
and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.

4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you.
Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Titus


1:1 Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according
to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which
is after godliness; 1:2 In hope of eternal life, which God, that
cannot lie, promised before the world began; 1:3 But hath in due times
manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me
according to the commandment of God our Saviour; 1:4 To Titus, mine
own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the
Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.

1:5 For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in
order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as
I had appointed thee: 1:6 If any be blameless, the husband of one
wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.

1:7 For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not
selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given
to filthy lucre; 1:8 But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men,
sober, just, holy, temperate; 1:9 Holding fast the faithful word as he
hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort
and to convince the gainsayers.

1:10 For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers,
specially they of the circumcision: 1:11 Whose mouths must be stopped,
who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for
filthy lucre's sake.

1:12 One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The
Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.

1:13 This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they
may be sound in the faith; 1:14 Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and
commandments of men, that turn from the truth.

1:15 Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled
and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is
defiled.

1:16 They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him,
being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.

2:1 But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine: 2:2 That
the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity,
in patience.

2:3 The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh
holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good
things; 2:4 That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love
their husbands, to love their children, 2:5 To be discreet, chaste,
keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word
of God be not blasphemed.

2:6 Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.

2:7 In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine
shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, 2:8 Sound speech, that
cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be
ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.

2:9 Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to
please them well in all things; not answering again; 2:10 Not
purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the
doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.

2:11 For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all
men, 2:12 Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we
should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;
2:13 Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the
great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; 2:14 Who gave himself for us,
that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a
peculiar people, zealous of good works.

2:15 These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority.
Let no man despise thee.

3:1 Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to
obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, 3:2 To speak evil of
no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all
men.

3:3 For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient,
deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and
envy, hateful, and hating one another.

3:4 But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man
appeared, 3:5 Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but
according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration,
and renewing of the Holy Ghost; 3:6 Which he shed on us abundantly
through Jesus Christ our Saviour; 3:7 That being justified by his
grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.

3:8 This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou
affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be
careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable
unto men.

3:9 But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and
strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.

3:10 A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition
reject; 3:11 Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth,
being condemned of himself.

3:12 When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to
come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.

3:13 Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently,
that nothing be wanting unto them.

3:14 And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary
uses, that they be not unfruitful.

3:15 All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the
faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Philemon


1:1 Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto
Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer, 1:2 And to our
beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in
thy house: 1:3 Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the
Lord Jesus Christ.

1:4 I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers, 1:5
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus,
and toward all saints; 1:6 That the communication of thy faith may
become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in
you in Christ Jesus.

1:7 For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the
bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.

1:8 Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee
that which is convenient, 1:9 Yet for love's sake I rather beseech
thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of
Jesus Christ.

1:10 I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my
bonds: 1:11 Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now
profitable to thee and to me: 1:12 Whom I have sent again: thou
therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels: 1:13 Whom I would
have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto
me in the bonds of the gospel: 1:14 But without thy mind would I do
nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but
willingly.

1:15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou
shouldest receive him for ever; 1:16 Not now as a servant, but above a
servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto
thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?  1:17 If thou count me
therefore a partner, receive him as myself.

1:18 If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine
account; 1:19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay
it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own
self besides.

1:20 Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my
bowels in the Lord.

1:21 Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing
that thou wilt also do more than I say.

1:22 But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through
your prayers I shall be given unto you.

1:23 There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;
1:24 Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.

1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews


1:1 God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past
unto the fathers by the prophets, 1:2 Hath in these last days spoken
unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom
also he made the worlds; 1:3 Who being the brightness of his glory,
and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the
word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on
the right hand of the Majesty on high: 1:4 Being made so much better
than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent
name than they.

1:5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son,
this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father,
and he shall be to me a Son?  1:6 And again, when he bringeth in the
firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God
worship him.

1:7 And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his
ministers a flame of fire.

1:8 But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and
ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.

1:9 Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God,
even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy
fellows.

1:10 And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the
earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands: 1:11 They shall
perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a
garment; 1:12 And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall
be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.

1:13 But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right
hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?  1:14 Are they not all
ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be
heirs of salvation?  2:1 Therefore we ought to give the more earnest
heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let
them slip.

2:2 For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every
transgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward;
2:3 How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at
the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by
them that heard him; 2:4 God also bearing them witness, both with
signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy
Ghost, according to his own will?  2:5 For unto the angels hath he not
put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.

2:6 But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that
thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
2:7 Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him
with glory and honour, and didst set him over the works of thy hands:
2:8 Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that
he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put
under him.

But now we see not yet all things put under him.

2:9 But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for
the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; that he by the
grace of God should taste death for every man.

2:10 For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all
things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their
salvation perfect through sufferings.

2:11 For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all
of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, 2:12
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the
church will I sing praise unto thee.

2:13 And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold I and
the children which God hath given me.

2:14 Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood,
he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he
might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil;
2:15 And deliver them who through fear of death were all their
lifetime subject to bondage.

2:16 For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took
on him the seed of Abraham.

2:17 Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his
brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in
things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the
people.

2:18 For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to
succour them that are tempted.

3:1 Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling,
consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus;
3:2 Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was
faithful in all his house.

3:3 For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch
as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house.

3:4 For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all
things is God.

3:5 And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for
a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after; 3:6 But
Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold
fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.

3:7 Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his
voice, 3:8 Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day
of temptation in the wilderness: 3:9 When your fathers tempted me,
proved me, and saw my works forty years.

3:10 Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do
alway err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.

3:11 So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.)  3:12
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of
unbelief, in departing from the living God.

3:13 But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any
of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.

3:14 For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of
our confidence stedfast unto the end; 3:15 While it is said, To day if
ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.

3:16 For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that
came out of Egypt by Moses.

3:17 But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them
that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?  3:18 And to
whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them
that believed not?  3:19 So we see that they could not enter in
because of unbelief.

4:1 Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering
into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it.

4:2 For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the
word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them
that heard it.

4:3 For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I
have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the
works were finished from the foundation of the world.

4:4 For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise,
And God did rest the seventh day from all his works.

4:5 And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest.

4:6 Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and
they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief:
4:7 Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after
so long a time; as it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice,
harden not your hearts.

4:8 For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have
spoken of another day.

4:9 There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.

4:10 For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from
his own works, as God did from his.

4:11 Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man
fall after the same example of unbelief.

4:12 For the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any
twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and
spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the
thoughts and intents of the heart.

4:13 Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight:
but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we
have to do.

4:14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into
the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.

4:15 For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the
feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we
are, yet without sin.

4:16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we
may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.

5:1 For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in
things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices
for sins: 5:2 Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them
that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with
infirmity.

5:3 And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for
himself, to offer for sins.

5:4 And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called
of God, as was Aaron.

5:5 So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest;
but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten
thee.

5:6 As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever
after the order of Melchisedec.

5:7 Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and
supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to
save him from death, and was heard in that he feared; 5:8 Though he
were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;
5:9 And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation
unto all them that obey him; 5:10 Called of God an high priest after
the order of Melchisedec.

5:11 Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered,
seeing ye are dull of hearing.

5:12 For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that
one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of
God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat.

5:13 For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of
righteousness: for he is a babe.

5:14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even
those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both
good and evil.

6:1 Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us
go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance
from dead works, and of faith toward God, 6:2 Of the doctrine of
baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead,
and of eternal judgment.

6:3 And this will we do, if God permit.

6:4 For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have
tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy
Ghost, 6:5 And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the
world to come, 6:6 If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto
repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh,
and put him to an open shame.

6:7 For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it,
and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed,
receiveth blessing from God: 6:8 But that which beareth thorns and
briers is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be
burned.

6:9 But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things
that accompany salvation, though we thus speak.

6:10 For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of
love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered
to the saints, and do minister.

6:11 And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to
the full assurance of hope unto the end: 6:12 That ye be not slothful,
but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the
promises.

6:13 For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by
no greater, he sware by himself, 6:14 Saying, Surely blessing I will
bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.

6:15 And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.

6:16 For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation
is to them an end of all strife.

6:17 Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of
promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath: 6:18
That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to
lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to
lay hold upon the hope set before us: 6:19 Which hope we have as an
anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into
that within the veil; 6:20 Whither the forerunner is for us entered,
even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the order of
Melchisedec.

7:1 For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God,
who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed
him; 7:2 To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by
interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of
Salem, which is, King of peace; 7:3 Without father, without mother,
without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life;
but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.

7:4 Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch
Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils.

7:5 And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the
office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the
people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they
come out of the loins of Abraham: 7:6 But he whose descent is not
counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had
the promises.

7:7 And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the better.

7:8 And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth them,
of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.

7:9 And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, payed tithes
in Abraham.

7:10 For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met
him.

7:11 If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, (for
under it the people received the law,) what further need was there
that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec, and
not be called after the order of Aaron?  7:12 For the priesthood being
changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law.

7:13 For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another
tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar.

7:14 For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; of which
tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.

7:15 And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of
Melchisedec there ariseth another priest, 7:16 Who is made, not after
the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless
life.

7:17 For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of
Melchisedec.

7:18 For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going
before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.

7:19 For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better
hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.

7:20 And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest: 7:21 (For
those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him
that said unto him, The Lord sware and will not repent, Thou art a
priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:) 7:22 By so much was
Jesus made a surety of a better testament.

7:23 And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered
to continue by reason of death: 7:24 But this man, because he
continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood.

7:25 Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come
unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.

7:26 For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless,
undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
7:27 Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up
sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this
he did once, when he offered up himself.

7:28 For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; but the
word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is
consecrated for evermore.

8:1 Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have
such an high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the
Majesty in the heavens; 8:2 A minister of the sanctuary, and of the
true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man.

8:3 For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices:
wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to
offer.

8:4 For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that
there are priests that offer gifts according to the law: 8:5 Who serve
unto the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was
admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, See,
saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed to
thee in the mount.

8:6 But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much
also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established
upon better promises.

8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no
place have been sought for the second.

8:8 For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come,
saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of
Israel and with the house of Judah: 8:9 Not according to the covenant
that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand
to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in
my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord.

8:10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of
Israel after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their
mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and
they shall be to me a people: 8:11 And they shall not teach every man
his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for
all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.

8:12 For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins
and their iniquities will I remember no more.

8:13 In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old. Now
that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away.

9:1 Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine
service, and a worldly sanctuary.

9:2 For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the
candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the
sanctuary.

9:3 And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the
Holiest of all; 9:4 Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the
covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot
that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the
covenant; 9:5 And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the
mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly.

9:6 Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always
into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.

9:7 But into the second went the high priest alone once every year,
not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of
the people: 9:8 The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the way into the
holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first
tabernacle was yet standing: 9:9 Which was a figure for the time then
present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could
not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the
conscience; 9:10 Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers
washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of
reformation.

9:11 But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a
greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to
say, not of this building; 9:12 Neither by the blood of goats and
calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place,
having obtained eternal redemption for us.

9:13 For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an
heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the
flesh: 9:14 How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the
eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your
conscience from dead works to serve the living God?  9:15 And for this
cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that by means of death,
for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first
testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal
inheritance.

9:16 For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the
death of the testator.

9:17 For a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is
of no strength at all while the testator liveth.

9:18 Whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without
blood.

9:19 For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people
according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with
water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and
all the people, 9:20 Saying, This is the blood of the testament which
God hath enjoined unto you.

9:21 Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the
vessels of the ministry.

9:22 And almost all things are by the law purged with blood; and
without shedding of blood is no remission.

9:23 It was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the
heavens should be purified with these; but the heavenly things
themselves with better sacrifices than these.

9:24 For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands,
which are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to
appear in the presence of God for us: 9:25 Nor yet that he should
offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place
every year with blood of others; 9:26 For then must he often have
suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of
the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of
himself.

9:27 And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the
judgment: 9:28 So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many;
and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time
without sin unto salvation.

10:1 For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the
very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they
offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect.

10:2 For then would they not have ceased to be offered? because that
the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of
sins.

10:3 But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins
every year.

10:4 For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats
should take away sins.

10:5 Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and
offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me: 10:6 In
burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.

10:7 Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written
of me,) to do thy will, O God.

10:8 Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings
and offering for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure
therein; which are offered by the law; 10:9 Then said he, Lo, I come
to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish
the second.

10:10 By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the
body of Jesus Christ once for all.

10:11 And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering
oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins: 10:12
But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever,
sat down on the right hand of God; 10:13 From henceforth expecting
till his enemies be made his footstool.

10:14 For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are
sanctified.

10:15 Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us: for after that
he had said before, 10:16 This is the covenant that I will make with
them after those days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws into their
hearts, and in their minds will I write them; 10:17 And their sins and
iniquities will I remember no more.

10:18 Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for
sin.

10:19 Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest
by the blood of Jesus, 10:20 By a new and living way, which he hath
consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh; 10:21
And having an high priest over the house of God; 10:22 Let us draw
near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts
sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure
water.

10:23 Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering;
(for he is faithful that promised;) 10:24 And let us consider one
another to provoke unto love and to good works: 10:25 Not forsaking
the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but
exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day
approaching.

10:26 For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge
of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, 10:27 But a
certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which
shall devour the adversaries.

10:28 He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or
three witnesses: 10:29 Of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall
he be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and
hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified,
an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace?
10:30 For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I
will recompense, saith the Lord. And again, The Lord shall judge his
people.

10:31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.

10:32 But call to remembrance the former days, in which, after ye were
illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions; 10:33 Partly,
whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions;
and partly, whilst ye became companions of them that were so used.

10:34 For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the
spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a
better and an enduring substance.

10:35 Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great
recompence of reward.

10:36 For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will
of God, ye might receive the promise.

10:37 For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and
will not tarry.

10:38 Now the just shall live by faith: but if any man draw back, my
soul shall have no pleasure in him.

10:39 But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition; but of them
that believe to the saving of the soul.

11:1 Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen.

11:2 For by it the elders obtained a good report.

11:3 Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the
word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things
which do appear.

11:4 By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than
Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God
testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh.

11:5 By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and
was not found, because God had translated him: for before his
translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

11:6 But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that
cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of
them that diligently seek him.

11:7 By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet,
moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the
which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness
which is by faith.

11:8 By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which
he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out,
not knowing whither he went.

11:9 By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange
country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with
him of the same promise: 11:10 For he looked for a city which hath
foundations, whose builder and maker is God.

11:11 Through faith also Sara herself received strength to conceive
seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she
judged him faithful who had promised.

11:12 Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so
many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by
the sea shore innumerable.

11:13 These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but
having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced
them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the
earth.

11:14 For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a
country.

11:15 And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence
they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.

11:16 But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly:
wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath
prepared for them a city.

11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he
that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, 11:18
Of whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called: 11:19
Accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from
whence also he received him in a figure.

11:20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.

11:21 By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of
Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.

11:22 By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of
the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.

11:23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his
parents, because they saw he was a proper child; and they were not
afraid of the king's commandment.

11:24 By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called
the son of Pharaoh's daughter; 11:25 Choosing rather to suffer
affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin
for a season; 11:26 Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches
than the treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompence of
the reward.

11:27 By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king:
for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible.

11:28 Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood,
lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them.

11:29 By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which
the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.

11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were
compassed about seven days.

11:31 By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed
not, when she had received the spies with peace.

11:32 And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of
Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also,
and Samuel, and of the prophets: 11:33 Who through faith subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths
of lions.

11:34 Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword,
out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to
flight the armies of the aliens.

11:35 Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were
tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better
resurrection: 11:36 And others had trial of cruel mockings and
scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: 11:37 They were
stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the
sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being
destitute, afflicted, tormented; 11:38 (Of whom the world was not
worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and
caves of the earth.

11:39 And these all, having obtained a good report through faith,
received not the promise: 11:40 God having provided some better thing
for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.

12:1 Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a
cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which
doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is
set before us, 12:2 Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our
faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross,
despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne
of God.

12:3 For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners
against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds.

12:4 Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.

12:5 And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as
unto children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord,
nor faint when thou art rebuked of him: 12:6 For whom the Lord loveth
he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.

12:7 If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons; for
what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?  12:8 But if ye be
without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards,
and not sons.

12:9 Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us,
and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection
unto the Father of spirits, and live?  12:10 For they verily for a few
days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit,
that we might be partakers of his holiness.

12:11 Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but
grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby.

12:12 Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble
knees; 12:13 And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is
lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.

12:14 Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man
shall see the Lord: 12:15 Looking diligently lest any man fail of the
grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you,
and thereby many be defiled; 12:16 Lest there be any fornicator, or
profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his
birthright.

12:17 For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the
blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though
he sought it carefully with tears.

12:18 For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and
that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
12:19 And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice
they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them
any more: 12:20 (For they could not endure that which was commanded,
And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or
thrust through with a dart: 12:21 And so terrible was the sight, that
Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:) 12:22 But ye are come unto
mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly
Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, 12:23 To the
general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in
heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men
made perfect, 12:24 And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and
to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things that that of
Abel.

12:25 See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped
not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we
escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven: 12:26
Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying,
Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.

12:27 And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those
things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things
which cannot be shaken may remain.

12:28 Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us
have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and
godly fear: 12:29 For our God is a consuming fire.

13:1 Let brotherly love continue.

13:2 Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have
entertained angels unawares.

13:3 Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them
which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.

13:4 Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but
whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.

13:5 Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content
with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave
thee, nor forsake thee.

13:6 So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not
fear what man shall do unto me.

13:7 Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto
you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their
conversation.

13:8 Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.

13:9 Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is
a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats,
which have not profited them that have been occupied therein.

13:10 We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve
the tabernacle.

13:11 For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the
sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.

13:12 Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his
own blood, suffered without the gate.

13:13 Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his
reproach.

13:14 For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.

13:15 By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God
continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.

13:16 But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such
sacrifices God is well pleased.

13:17 Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves:
for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that
they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable
for you.

13:18 Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all
things willing to live honestly.

13:19 But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored
to you the sooner.

13:20 Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord
Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the
everlasting covenant, 13:21 Make you perfect in every good work to do
his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight,
through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

13:22 And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for
I have written a letter unto you in few words.

13:23 Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom,
if he come shortly, I will see you.

13:24 Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints.

They of Italy salute you.

13:25 Grace be with you all. Amen.




The General Epistle of James


1:1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ,
to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting.

1:2 My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers
temptations; 1:3 Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh
patience.

1:4 But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and
entire, wanting nothing.

1:5 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all
men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.

1:6 But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth
is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.

1:7 For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the
Lord.

1:8 A double minded man is unstable in all his ways.

1:9 Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted: 1:10
But the rich, in that he is made low: because as the flower of the
grass he shall pass away.

1:11 For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it
withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of
the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade away in
his ways.

1:12 Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is
tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath
promised to them that love him.

1:13 Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God
cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man: 1:14 But
every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and
enticed.

1:15 Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin,
when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

1:16 Do not err, my beloved brethren.

1:17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh
down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither
shadow of turning.

1:18 Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we
should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.

1:19 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear,
slow to speak, slow to wrath: 1:20 For the wrath of man worketh not
the righteousness of God.

1:21 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of
naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is
able to save your souls.

1:22 But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your
own selves.

1:23 For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like
unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: 1:24 For he
beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what
manner of man he was.

1:25 But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth
therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this
man shall be blessed in his deed.

1:26 If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his
tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain.

1:27 Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To
visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep
himself unspotted from the world.

2:1 My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord
of glory, with respect of persons.

2:2 For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in
goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment; 2:3
And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto
him, Sit thou here in a good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou
there, or sit here under my footstool: 2:4 Are ye not then partial in
yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts?  2:5 Hearken, my
beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in
faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that
love him?  2:6 But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress
you, and draw you before the judgment seats?  2:7 Do not they
blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called?  2:8 If ye
fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself, ye do well: 2:9 But if ye have respect to
persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors.

2:10 For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one
point, he is guilty of all.

2:11 For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill.
Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a
transgressor of the law.

2:12 So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law
of liberty.

2:13 For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath shewed no
mercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment.

2:14 What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith,
and have not works? can faith save him?  2:15 If a brother or sister
be naked, and destitute of daily food, 2:16 And one of you say unto
them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye
give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it
profit?  2:17 Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being
alone.

2:18 Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me
thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my
works.

2:19 Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils
also believe, and tremble.

2:20 But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?
2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works, when he had
offered Isaac his son upon the altar?  2:22 Seest thou how faith
wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?  2:23 And
the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it
was imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend
of God.

2:24 Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by
faith only.

2:25 Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when
she had received the messengers, and had sent them out another way?
2:26 For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without
works is dead also.

3:1 My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive
the greater condemnation.

3:2 For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word,
the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body.

3:3 Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us;
and we turn about their whole body.

3:4 Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are
driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small
helm, whithersoever the governor listeth.

3:5 Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things.

Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth!  3:6 And the tongue
is a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members,
that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of
nature; and it is set on fire of hell.

3:7 For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of
things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind: 3:8 But
the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly
poison.

3:9 Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we
men, which are made after the similitude of God.

3:10 Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My
brethren, these things ought not so to be.

3:11 Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and
bitter?  3:12 Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries?
either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water and
fresh.

3:13 Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him
shew out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom.

3:14 But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory
not, and lie not against the truth.

3:15 This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual,
devilish.

3:16 For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every
evil work.

3:17 But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable,
gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits,
without partiality, and without hypocrisy.

3:18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make
peace.

4:1 From whence come wars and fightings among you? come they not
hence, even of your lusts that war in your members?  4:2 Ye lust, and
have not: ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and
war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not.

4:3 Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume
it upon your lusts.

4:4 Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of
the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a friend of
the world is the enemy of God.

4:5 Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that
dwelleth in us lusteth to envy?  4:6 But he giveth more grace.
Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the
humble.

4:7 Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will
flee from you.

4:8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your
hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

4:9 Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to
mourning, and your joy to heaviness.

4:10 Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you
up.

4:11 Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of
his brother, and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and
judgeth the law: but if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the
law, but a judge.

4:12 There is one lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy: who
art thou that judgest another?  4:13 Go to now, ye that say, To day or
to morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and
buy and sell, and get gain: 4:14 Whereas ye know not what shall be on
the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth
for a little time, and then vanisheth away.

4:15 For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall live, and do
this, or that.

4:16 But now ye rejoice in your boastings: all such rejoicing is evil.

4:17 Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to
him it is sin.

5:1 Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall
come upon you.

5:2 Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are motheaten.

5:3 Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them shall be a
witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have
heaped treasure together for the last days.

5:4 Behold, the hire of the labourers who have reaped down your
fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth: and the cries of
them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of
sabaoth.

5:5 Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth, and been wanton; ye have
nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.

5:6 Ye have condemned and killed the just; and he doth not resist you.

5:7 Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord.

Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth,
and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter
rain.

5:8 Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the
Lord draweth nigh.

5:9 Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned:
behold, the judge standeth before the door.

5:10 Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of
the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience.

5:11 Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the
patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is
very pitiful, and of tender mercy.

5:12 But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven,
neither by the earth, neither by any other oath: but let your yea be
yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.

5:13 Is any among you afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him
sing psalms.

5:14 Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the church;
and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the
Lord: 5:15 And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord
shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be
forgiven him.

5:16 Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another,
that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man
availeth much.

5:17 Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed
earnestly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by
the space of three years and six months.

5:18 And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth
brought forth her fruit.

5:19 Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert
him; 5:20 Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the
error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a
multitude of sins.




The First Epistle General of Peter


1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered
throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, 1:2 Elect
according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through
sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the
blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.

1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which
according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively
hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, 1:4 To an
inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away,
reserved in heaven for you, 1:5 Who are kept by the power of God
through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.

1:6 Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be,
ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations: 1:7 That the trial
of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth,
though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour
and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ: 1:8 Whom having not seen,
ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice
with joy unspeakable and full of glory: 1:9 Receiving the end of your
faith, even the salvation of your souls.

1:10 Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched
diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:
1:11 Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which
was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings
of Christ, and the glory that should follow.

1:12 Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us
they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them
that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down
from heaven; which things the angels desire to look into.

1:13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to
the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation
of Jesus Christ; 1:14 As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves
according to the former lusts in your ignorance: 1:15 But as he which
hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation;
1:16 Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.

1:17 And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons
judgeth according to every man's work, pass the time of your
sojourning here in fear: 1:18 Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not
redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain
conversation received by tradition from your fathers; 1:19 But with
the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without
spot: 1:20 Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the
world, but was manifest in these last times for you, 1:21 Who by him
do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him
glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.

1:22 Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through
the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one
another with a pure heart fervently: 1:23 Being born again, not of
corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which
liveth and abideth for ever.

1:24 For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower
of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:
1:25 But the word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the word
which by the gospel is preached unto you.

2:1 Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies,
and envies, all evil speakings, 2:2 As newborn babes, desire the
sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: 2:3 If so be ye
have tasted that the Lord is gracious.

2:4 To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men,
but chosen of God, and precious, 2:5 Ye also, as lively stones, are
built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual
sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.

2:6 Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in
Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on
him shall not be confounded.

2:7 Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto them
which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the
same is made the head of the corner, 2:8 And a stone of stumbling, and
a rock of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being
disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.

2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy
nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of
him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light;
2:10 Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of
God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.

2:11 Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain
from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; 2:12 Having your
conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak
against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they
shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.

2:13 Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake:
whether it be to the king, as supreme; 2:14 Or unto governors, as unto
them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the
praise of them that do well.

2:15 For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put to
silence the ignorance of foolish men: 2:16 As free, and not using your
liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God.

2:17 Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.

2:18 Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to
the good and gentle, but also to the froward.

2:19 For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God
endure grief, suffering wrongfully.

2:20 For what glory is it, if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye
shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it,
ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God.

2:21 For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered
for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps: 2:22
Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: 2:23 Who, when
he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened
not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously: 2:24 Who
his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being
dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were
healed.

2:25 For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the
Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.

3:1 Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that,
if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the
conversation of the wives; 3:2 While they behold your chaste
conversation coupled with fear.

3:3 Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the
hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel; 3:4 But let
it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible,
even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of
God of great price.

3:5 For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, who
trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own
husbands: 3:6 Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose
daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any
amazement.

3:7 Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge,
giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being
heirs together of the grace of life; that your prayers be not
hindered.

3:8 Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another,
love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous: 3:9 Not rendering evil for
evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing that
ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing.

3:10 For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain
his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile: 3:11 Let
him eschew evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it.

3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are
open unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them that
do evil.

3:13 And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that
which is good?  3:14 But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake,
happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled;
3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always to
give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that
is in you with meekness and fear: 3:16 Having a good conscience; that,
whereas they speak evil of you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamed
that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ.

3:17 For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for
well doing, than for evil doing.

3:18 For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the
unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: 3:19 By which also he went and
preached unto the spirits in prison; 3:20 Which sometime were
disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of
Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls
were saved by water.

3:21 The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not
the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good
conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ: 3:22 Who
is gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels and
authorities and powers being made subject unto him.

4:1 Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm
yourselves likewise with the same mind: for he that hath suffered in
the flesh hath ceased from sin; 4:2 That he no longer should live the
rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of
God.

4:3 For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the
will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess
of wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries: 4:4
Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same
excess of riot, speaking evil of you: 4:5 Who shall give account to
him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead.

4:6 For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are
dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but
live according to God in the spirit.

4:7 But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore sober, and
watch unto prayer.

4:8 And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: for
charity shall cover the multitude of sins.

4:9 Use hospitality one to another without grudging.

4:10 As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same
one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.

4:11 If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if any man
minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that God
in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise
and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

4:12 Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is
to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you: 4:13 But
rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings; that,
when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding
joy.

4:14 If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for the
spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is evil
spoken of, but on your part he is glorified.

4:15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an
evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters.

4:16 Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but
let him glorify God on this behalf.

4:17 For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of
God: and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that
obey not the gospel of God?  4:18 And if the righteous scarcely be
saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?  4:19 Wherefore
let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping
of their souls to him in well doing, as unto a faithful Creator.

5:1 The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and
a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the
glory that shall be revealed: 5:2 Feed the flock of God which is among
you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly;
not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; 5:3 Neither as being lords
over God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.

5:4 And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown
of glory that fadeth not away.

5:5 Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all
of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: for
God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble.

5:6 Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he
may exalt you in due time: 5:7 Casting all your care upon him; for he
careth for you.

5:8 Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a
roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour: 5:9 Whom
resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are
accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.

5:10 But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal
glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you
perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you.

5:11 To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

5:12 By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have
written briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace
of God wherein ye stand.

5:13 The church that is at Babylon, elected together with you,
saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son.

5:14 Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace be with you
all that are in Christ Jesus. Amen.




The Second General Epistle of Peter


1:1 Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them
that have obtained like precious faith with us through the
righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ: 1:2 Grace and peace
be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our
Lord, 1:3 According as his divine power hath given unto us all things
that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him
that hath called us to glory and virtue: 1:4 Whereby are given unto us
exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be
partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is
in the world through lust.

1:5 And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue;
and to virtue knowledge; 1:6 And to knowledge temperance; and to
temperance patience; and to patience godliness; 1:7 And to godliness
brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.

1:8 For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye
shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord
Jesus Christ.

1:9 But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar
off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins.

1:10 Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your
calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never
fall: 1:11 For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly
into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

1:12 Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in
remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established
in the present truth.

1:13 Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir
you up by putting you in remembrance; 1:14 Knowing that shortly I must
put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed
me.

1:15 Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to
have these things always in remembrance.

1:16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made
known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were
eyewitnesses of his majesty.

1:17 For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there
came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved
Son, in whom I am well pleased.

1:18 And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with
him in the holy mount.

1:19 We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well
that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until
the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: 1:20 Knowing this
first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private
interpretation.

1:21 For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but
holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.

2:1 But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there
shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable
heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon
themselves swift destruction.

2:2 And many shall follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the
way of truth shall be evil spoken of.

2:3 And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make
merchandise of you: whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not,
and their damnation slumbereth not.

2:4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down
to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved
unto judgment; 2:5 And spared not the old world, but saved Noah the
eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon
the world of the ungodly; 2:6 And turning the cities of Sodom and
Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an
ensample unto those that after should live ungodly; 2:7 And delivered
just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked: 2:8 (For
that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed
his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds;) 2:9 The
Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to
reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished: 2:10 But
chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and
despise government. Presumptuous are they, selfwilled, they are not
afraid to speak evil of dignities.

2:11 Whereas angels, which are greater in power and might, bring not
railing accusation against them before the Lord.

2:12 But these, as natural brute beasts, made to be taken and
destroyed, speak evil of the things that they understand not; and
shall utterly perish in their own corruption; 2:13 And shall receive
the reward of unrighteousness, as they that count it pleasure to riot
in the day time. Spots they are and blemishes, sporting themselves
with their own deceivings while they feast with you; 2:14 Having eyes
full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin; beguiling unstable
souls: an heart they have exercised with covetous practices; cursed
children: 2:15 Which have forsaken the right way, and are gone astray,
following the way of Balaam the son of Bosor, who loved the wages of
unrighteousness; 2:16 But was rebuked for his iniquity: the dumb ass
speaking with man's voice forbad the madness of the prophet.

2:17 These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a
tempest; to whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever.

2:18 For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure
through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that
were clean escaped from them who live in error.

2:19 While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants
of corruption: for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he
brought in bondage.

2:20 For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world
through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are
again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with
them than the beginning.

2:21 For it had been better for them not to have known the way of
righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy
commandment delivered unto them.

2:22 But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The
dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to
her wallowing in the mire.

3:1 This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which
I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance: 3:2 That ye may be
mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets,
and of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour: 3:3
Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers,
walking after their own lusts, 3:4 And saying, Where is the promise of
his coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as
they were from the beginning of the creation.

3:5 For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God
the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and
in the water: 3:6 Whereby the world that then was, being overflowed
with water, perished: 3:7 But the heavens and the earth, which are
now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against
the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.

3:8 But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is
with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.

3:9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count
slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any
should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

3:10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the
which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements
shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are
therein shall be burned up.

3:11 Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner
of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness, 3:12
Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the
heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat?  3:13 Nevertheless we, according to his promise,
look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.

3:14 Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be
diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and
blameless.

3:15 And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even
as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto
him hath written unto you; 3:16 As also in all his epistles, speaking
in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be
understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they
do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction.

3:17 Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before, beware
lest ye also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from
your own stedfastness.

3:18 But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and for ever. Amen.




The First Epistle General of John


1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we
have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have
handled, of the Word of life; 1:2 (For the life was manifested, and we
have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life,
which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;) 1:3 That which
we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have
fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and
with his Son Jesus Christ.

1:4 And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full.

1:5 This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare
unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.

1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness,
we lie, and do not the truth: 1:7 But if we walk in the light, as he
is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of
Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
is not in us.

1:9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our
sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his
word is not in us.

2:1 My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin
not.

And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ
the righteous: 2:2 And he is the propitiation for our sins: and not
for our's only, but also for the sins of the whole world.

2:3 And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his
commandments.

2:4 He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a
liar, and the truth is not in him.

2:5 But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God
perfected: hereby know we that we are in him.

2:6 He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk,
even as he walked.

2:7 Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old
commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is
the word which ye have heard from the beginning.

2:8 Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in
him and in you: because the darkness is past, and the true light now
shineth.

2:9 He that saith he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in
darkness even until now.

2:10 He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is
none occasion of stumbling in him.

2:11 But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in
darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath
blinded his eyes.

2:12 I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven
you for his name's sake.

2:13 I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from
the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome
the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have
known the Father.

2:14 I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that
is from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye
are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome
the wicked one.

2:15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If
any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.

2:16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust
of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of
the world.

2:17 And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that
doeth the will of God abideth for ever.

2:18 Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that
antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; whereby we
know that it is the last time.

2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had
been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they went
out, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us.

2:20 But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things.

2:21 I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but
because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth.

2:22 Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is
antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son.

2:23 Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he that
acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also.

2:24 Let that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from the
beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain
in you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father.

2:25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal
life.

2:26 These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce
you.

2:27 But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you,
and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing
teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as
it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.

2:28 And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he shall
appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his
coming.

2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one that
doeth righteousness is born of him.

3:1 Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that
we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us
not, because it knew him not.

3:2 Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear
what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be
like him; for we shall see him as he is.

3:3 And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even
as he is pure.

3:4 Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is
the transgression of the law.

3:5 And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in
him is no sin.

3:6 Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not
seen him, neither known him.

3:7 Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth
righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.

3:8 He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from
the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he
might destroy the works of the devil.

3:9 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed
remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.

3:10 In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the
devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he
that loveth not his brother.

3:11 For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we
should love one another.

3:12 Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother.
And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his
brother's righteous.

3:13 Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you.

3:14 We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love
the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.

3:15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no
murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.

3:16 Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life
for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.

3:17 But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have
need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth
the love of God in him?  3:18 My little children, let us not love in
word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.

3:19 And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our
hearts before him.

3:20 For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and
knoweth all things.

3:21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence
toward God.

3:22 And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his
commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.

3:23 And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name
of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us
commandment.

3:24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in
him.

And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath
given us.

4:1 Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether
they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the
world.

4:2 Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth
that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: 4:3 And every spirit
that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of
God: and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that
it should come; and even now already is it in the world.

4:4 Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because
greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.

4:5 They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the
world heareth them.

4:6 We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of
God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit
of error.

4:7 Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every
one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God.

4:8 He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love.

4:9 In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God
sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through
him.

4:10 Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and
sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.

4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.

4:12 No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God
dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.

4:13 Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he
hath given us of his Spirit.

4:14 And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to
be the Saviour of the world.

4:15 Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God
dwelleth in him, and he in God.

4:16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God
is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.

4:17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the
day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.

4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear:
because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in
love.

4:19 We love him, because he first loved us.

4:20 If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar:
for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love
God whom he hath not seen?  4:21 And this commandment have we from
him, That he who loveth God love his brother also.

5:1 Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: and
every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten
of him.

5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love
God, and keep his commandments.

5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and
his commandments are not grievous.

5:4 For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is
the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.

5:5 Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that
Jesus is the Son of God?  5:6 This is he that came by water and blood,
even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it
is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.

5:7 For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the
Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one.

5:8 And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and
the water, and the blood: and these three agree in one.

5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater:
for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son.

5:10 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself:
he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth
not the record that God gave of his Son.

5:11 And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life,
and this life is in his Son.

5:12 He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of
God hath not life.

5:13 These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of
the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that
ye may believe on the name of the Son of God.

5:14 And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask
any thing according to his will, he heareth us: 5:15 And if we know
that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions
that we desired of him.

5:16 If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he
shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto
death. There is a sin unto death: I do not say that he shall pray for
it.

5:17 All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto death.

5:18 We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that is
begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not.

5:19 And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in
wickedness.

5:20 And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an
understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him
that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and
eternal life.

5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.




The Second Epistle General of John


1:1 The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in
the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the
truth; 1:2 For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be
with us for ever.

1:3 Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from
the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.

1:4 I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth,
as we have received a commandment from the Father.

1:5 And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new
commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that
we love one another.

1:6 And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the
commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk
in it.

1:7 For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not
that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an
antichrist.

1:8 Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have
wrought, but that we receive a full reward.

1:9 Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of
Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he
hath both the Father and the Son.

1:10 If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive
him not into your house, neither bid him God speed: 1:11 For he that
biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds.

1:12 Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with
paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face,
that our joy may be full.

1:13 The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.




The Third Epistle General of John


1:1 The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.

1:2 Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be
in health, even as thy soul prospereth.

1:3 For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of
the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.

1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.

1:5 Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the
brethren, and to strangers; 1:6 Which have borne witness of thy
charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey
after a godly sort, thou shalt do well: 1:7 Because that for his
name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles.

1:8 We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers
to the truth.

1:9 I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the
preeminence among them, receiveth us not.

1:10 Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth,
prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith,
neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that
would, and casteth them out of the church.

1:11 Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good.
He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen
God.

1:12 Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself:
yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.

1:13 I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write
unto thee: 1:14 But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall
speak face to face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet
the friends by name.




The General Epistle of Jude


1:1 Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to them
that are sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ,
and called: 1:2 Mercy unto you, and peace, and love, be multiplied.

1:3 Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common
salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you, and exhort you
that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once
delivered unto the saints.

1:4 For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of
old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of
our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our
Lord Jesus Christ.

1:5 I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this,
how that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt,
afterward destroyed them that believed not.

1:6 And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their
own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness
unto the judgment of the great day.

1:7 Even as Sodom and Gomorrha, and the cities about them in like
manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange
flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of
eternal fire.

1:8 Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise
dominion, and speak evil of dignities.

1:9 Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil he
disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a
railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee.

1:10 But these speak evil of those things which they know not: but
what they know naturally, as brute beasts, in those things they
corrupt themselves.

1:11 Woe unto them! for they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran
greedily after the error of Balaam for reward, and perished in the
gainsaying of Core.

1:12 These are spots in your feasts of charity, when they feast with
you, feeding themselves without fear: clouds they are without water,
carried about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth, without fruit,
twice dead, plucked up by the roots; 1:13 Raging waves of the sea,
foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the
blackness of darkness for ever.

1:14 And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these,
saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his saints, 1:15
To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly
among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly
committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have
spoken against him.

1:16 These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lusts;
and their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in
admiration because of advantage.

1:17 But, beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of
the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ; 1:18 How that they told you
there should be mockers in the last time, who should walk after their
own ungodly lusts.

1:19 These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the
Spirit.

1:20 But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith,
praying in the Holy Ghost, 1:21 Keep yourselves in the love of God,
looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.

1:22 And of some have compassion, making a difference: 1:23 And others
save with fear, pulling them out of the fire; hating even the garment
spotted by the flesh.

1:24 Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to
present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding
joy, 1:25 To the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty,
dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen.




The Revelation of Saint John the Devine


1:1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shew
unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent
and signified it by his angel unto his servant John: 1:2 Who bare
record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and
of all things that he saw.

1:3 Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this
prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for the
time is at hand.

1:4 John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace be unto you,
and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come; and
from the seven Spirits which are before his throne; 1:5 And from Jesus
Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the
dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved
us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood, 1:6 And hath made us
kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and
dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

1:7 Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and
they also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail
because of him. Even so, Amen.

1:8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the
Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.

1:9 I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation,
and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that
is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus
Christ.

1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a
great voice, as of a trumpet, 1:11 Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the
first and the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book, and send it
unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto
Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and
unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.

1:12 And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being
turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks; 1:13 And in the midst of the
seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a
garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a golden
girdle.

1:14 His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow;
and his eyes were as a flame of fire; 1:15 And his feet like unto fine
brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound of
many waters.

1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth
went a sharp twoedged sword: and his countenance was as the sun
shineth in his strength.

1:17 And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his
right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and the
last: 1:18 I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive
for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.

1:19 Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are,
and the things which shall be hereafter; 1:20 The mystery of the seven
stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden
candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches:
and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.

2:1 Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saith
he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the
midst of the seven golden candlesticks; 2:2 I know thy works, and thy
labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are
evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are
not, and hast found them liars: 2:3 And hast borne, and hast patience,
and for my name's sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.

2:4 Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left
thy first love.

2:5 Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do
the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will
remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.

2:6 But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the
Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.

2:7 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of
life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.

2:8 And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These things
saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive; 2:9 I know
thy works, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I
know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but
are the synagogue of Satan.

2:10 Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the
devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye
shall have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and I
will give thee a crown of life.

2:11 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.

2:12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These things
saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges; 2:13 I know thy
works, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is: and thou
holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days
wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where
Satan dwelleth.

2:14 But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there
them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a
stumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed
unto idols, and to commit fornication.

2:15 So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the
Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate.

2:16 Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will fight
against them with the sword of my mouth.

2:17 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden
manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name
written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.

2:18 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things
saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and
his feet are like fine brass; 2:19 I know thy works, and charity, and
service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to
be more than the first.

2:20 Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thou
sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to
teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat
things sacrificed unto idols.

2:21 And I gave her space to repent of her fornication; and she
repented not.

2:22 Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery
with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds.

2:23 And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches
shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts: and I
will give unto every one of you according to your works.

2:24 But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as
have not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan,
as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.

2:25 But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.

2:26 And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him
will I give power over the nations: 2:27 And he shall rule them with a
rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to
shivers: even as I received of my Father.

2:28 And I will give him the morning star.

2:29 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:1 And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things
saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I
know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.

3:2 Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are
ready to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.

3:3 Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold
fast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on
thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon
thee.

3:4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their
garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.

3:5 He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment;
and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will
confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.

3:6 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things
saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David,
he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man
openeth; 3:8 I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an open
door, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and
hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.

3:9 Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they
are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come
and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.

3:10 Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep
thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world,
to try them that dwell upon the earth.

3:11 Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no
man take thy crown.

3:12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God,
and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of my
God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which
cometh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him my
new name.

3:13 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:14 And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; These
things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of
the creation of God; 3:15 I know thy works, that thou art neither cold
nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot.

3:16 So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I
will spue thee out of my mouth.

3:17 Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and
have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, and
miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked: 3:18 I counsel thee to buy
of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white
raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy
nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that
thou mayest see.

3:19 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore,
and repent.

3:20 Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice,
and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and
he with me.

3:21 To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne,
even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.

3:22 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

4:1 After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: and
the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with
me; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which must
be hereafter.

4:2 And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set
in heaven, and one sat on the throne.

4:3 And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine
stone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like
unto an emerald.

4:4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon
the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white
raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.

4:5 And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and
voices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne,
which are the seven Spirits of God.

4:6 And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal:
and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four
beasts full of eyes before and behind.

4:7 And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a
calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast
was like a flying eagle.

4:8 And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they
were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying,
Holy, holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to
come.

4:9 And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that
sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever, 4:10 The four and
twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship
him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the
throne, saying, 4:11 Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and
honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy
pleasure they are and were created.

5:1 And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book
written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.

5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is
worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?  5:3 And no
man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open
the book, neither to look thereon.

5:4 And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to
read the book, neither to look thereon.

5:5 And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of
the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book,
and to loose the seven seals thereof.

5:6 And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four
beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been
slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits
of God sent forth into all the earth.

5:7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that
sat upon the throne.

5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and
twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them
harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of
saints.

5:9 And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the
book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast
redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and
people, and nation; 5:10 And hast made us unto our God kings and
priests: and we shall reign on the earth.

5:11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about
the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was
ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands; 5:12
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive
power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory,
and blessing.

5:13 And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and
under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them,
heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto
him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.

5:14 And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders
fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.

6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as
it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and
see.

6:2 And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a
bow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and
to conquer.

6:3 And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast
say, Come and see.

6:4 And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given
to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they
should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.

6:5 And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast
say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat
on him had a pair of balances in his hand.

6:6 And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure
of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and
see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.

6:7 And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the
fourth beast say, Come and see.

6:8 And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on
him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto
them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with
hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.

6:9 And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the
souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the
testimony which they held: 6:10 And they cried with a loud voice,
saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and
avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?  6:11 And white
robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them,
that they should rest yet for a little season, until their
fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they
were, should be fulfilled.

6:12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there
was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair,
and the moon became as blood; 6:13 And the stars of heaven fell unto
the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is
shaken of a mighty wind.

6:14 And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together;
and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.

6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men,
and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and
every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the
mountains; 6:16 And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and
hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the
wrath of the Lamb: 6:17 For the great day of his wrath is come; and
who shall be able to stand?  7:1 And after these things I saw four
angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four
winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on
the sea, nor on any tree.

7:2 And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal
of the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels,
to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, 7:3 Saying, Hurt
not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the
servants of our God in their foreheads.

7:4 And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were
sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the
children of Israel.

7:5 Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of
Reuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed
twelve thousand.

7:6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of
Nephthalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were
sealed twelve thousand.

7:7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe
of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were
sealed twelve thousand.

7:8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe
of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were
sealed twelve thousand.

7:9 After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man
could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues,
stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white
robes, and palms in their hands; 7:10 And cried with a loud voice,
saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto
the Lamb.

7:11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the
elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces,
and worshipped God, 7:12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and
wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be unto
our God for ever and ever. Amen.

7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these
which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?  7:14 And I
said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they
which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and
made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

7:15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day
and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell
among them.

7:16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall
the sun light on them, nor any heat.

7:17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them,
and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall
wipe away all tears from their eyes.

8:1 And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in
heaven about the space of half an hour.

8:2 And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them
were given seven trumpets.

8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden
censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should
offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which
was before the throne.

8:4 And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the
saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.

8:5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the
altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and
thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.

8:6 And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared
themselves to sound.

8:7 The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled
with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of
trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.

8:8 And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain
burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea
became blood; 8:9 And the third part of the creatures which were in
the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were
destroyed.

8:10 And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from
heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of
the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters; 8:11 And the name of the
star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became
wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made
bitter.

8:12 And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was
smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the
stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone
not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.

8:13 And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst of
heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of
the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three
angels, which are yet to sound!  9:1 And the fifth angel sounded, and
I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to him was given the
key of the bottomless pit.

9:2 And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of
the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were
darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.

9:3 And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: and unto
them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.

9:4 And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of
the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those
men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.

9:5 And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that
they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the
torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.

9:6 And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and
shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.

9:7 And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto
battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their
faces were as the faces of men.

9:8 And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as
the teeth of lions.

9:9 And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and
the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses
running to battle.

9:10 And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in
their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.

9:11 And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the
bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the
Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.

9:12 One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.

9:13 And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four
horns of the golden altar which is before God, 9:14 Saying to the
sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are
bound in the great river Euphrates.

9:15 And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour,
and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.

9:16 And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred
thousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.

9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on
them, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone: and
the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions; and out of their
mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.

9:18 By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and
by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.

9:19 For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their
tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do
hurt.

9:20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues
yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not
worship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,
and of wood: which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk: 9:21 Neither
repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their
fornication, nor of their thefts.

10:1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed
with a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it
were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire: 10:2 And he had in his
hand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, and
his left foot on the earth, 10:3 And cried with a loud voice, as when
a lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their
voices.

10:4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about
to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up
those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.

10:5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth
lifted up his hand to heaven, 10:6 And sware by him that liveth for
ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are,
and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the
things which are therein, that there should be time no longer: 10:7
But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin
to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared
to his servants the prophets.

10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and
said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the
angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.

10:9 And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little
book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make
thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.

10:10 And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it
up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten
it, my belly was bitter.

10:11 And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many
peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.

11:1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel
stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and
them that worship therein.

11:2 But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure
it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall
they tread under foot forty and two months.

11:3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall
prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in
sackcloth.

11:4 These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing
before the God of the earth.

11:5 And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their
mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he
must in this manner be killed.

11:6 These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of
their prophecy: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and
to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.

11:7 And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that
ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and
shall overcome them, and kill them.

11:8 And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city,
which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was
crucified.

11:9 And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall
see their dead bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffer
their dead bodies to be put in graves.

11:10 And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and
make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two
prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.

11:11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God
entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell
upon them which saw them.

11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come
up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their
enemies beheld them.

11:13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth
part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven
thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God
of heaven.

11:14 The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe cometh
quickly.

11:15 And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in
heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of
our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.

11:16 And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their
seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, 11:17 Saying, We
give thee thanks, O LORD God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to
come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast
reigned.

11:18 And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time
of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give
reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them
that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy them which
destroy the earth.

11:19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen
in his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, and
voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.

12:1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with
the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of
twelve stars: 12:2 And she being with child cried, travailing in
birth, and pained to be delivered.

12:3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great
red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon
his heads.

12:4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did
cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman which
was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was
born.

12:5 And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations
with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to his
throne.

12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place
prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two
hundred and threescore days.

12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 12:8 And
prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.

12:9 And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the
Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out
into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.

12:10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come
salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of
his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which
accused them before our God day and night.

12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word
of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.

12:12 Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to
the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down
unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a
short time.

12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he
persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.

12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she
might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished
for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.

12:15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the
woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.

12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth,
and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.

12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war
with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and
have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out
of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten
crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.

13:2 And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet
were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and
the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.

13:3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his
deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.

13:4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast:
and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who
is able to make war with him?  13:5 And there was given unto him a
mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto
him to continue forty and two months.

13:6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme
his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.

13:7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to
overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues,
and nations.

13:8 And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names
are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the
foundation of the world.

13:9 If any man have an ear, let him hear.

13:10 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that
killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the
patience and the faith of the saints.

13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he
had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.

13:12 And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him,
and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the
first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.

13:13 And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down
from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, 13:14 And deceiveth them
that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had
power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on
the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the
wound by a sword, and did live.

13:15 And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that
the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as
would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.

13:16 And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free
and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their
foreheads: 13:17 And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had
the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.

13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number
of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six
hundred threescore and six.

14:1 And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with
him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name
written in their foreheads.

14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and
as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers
harping with their harps: 14:3 And they sung as it were a new song
before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no
man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,
which were redeemed from the earth.

14:4 These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are
virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.
These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and
to the Lamb.

14:5 And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault
before the throne of God.

14:6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to
every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 14:7 Saying with a
loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his
judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the
sea, and the fountains of waters.

14:8 And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is
fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the
wine of the wrath of her fornication.

14:9 And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If
any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his
forehead, or in his hand, 14:10 The same shall drink of the wine of
the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of
his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in
the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever:
and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his
image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.

14:12 Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the
commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.

14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed
are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the
Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do
follow them.

14:14 And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one
sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and
in his hand a sharp sickle.

14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud
voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap:
for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is
ripe.

14:16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth;
and the earth was reaped.

14:17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he
also having a sharp sickle.

14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over
fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle,
saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the
vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.

14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered
the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the
wrath of God.

14:20 And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came
out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a
thousand and six hundred furlongs.

15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven
angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the
wrath of God.

15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and them
that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and
over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of
glass, having the harps of God.

15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song
of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God
Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.

15:4 Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou
only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for
thy judgments are made manifest.

15:5 And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the
tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened: 15:6 And the seven
angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in
pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden
girdles.

15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven
golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.

15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and
from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the
seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.

16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven
angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon
the earth.

16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and
there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark
of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.

16:3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it
became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the
sea.

16:4 And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and
fountains of waters; and they became blood.

16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O
Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged
thus.

16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou
hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.

16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God
Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.

16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power
was given unto him to scorch men with fire.

16:9 And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of
God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to
give him glory.

16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the
beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their
tongues for pain, 16:11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because of
their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.

16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river
Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the
kings of the east might be prepared.

16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth
of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth
of the false prophet.

16:14 For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go
forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.

16:15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and
keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.

16:16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew
tongue Armageddon.

16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and
there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne,
saying, It is done.

16:18 And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there
was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth,
so mighty an earthquake, and so great.

16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities
of the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God,
to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.

16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.

16:21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone
about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of the
plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.

17:1 And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials,
and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee
the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters: 17:2
With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the
inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her
fornication.

17:3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I
saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of
blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.

17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and
decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup
in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:
17:5 And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE
GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.

17:6 And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and
with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered
with great admiration.

17:7 And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will
tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth
her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.

17:8 The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out
of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on
the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of
life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that
was, and is not, and yet is.

17:9 And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven
mountains, on which the woman sitteth.

17:10 And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the
other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short
space.

17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and
is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.

17:12 And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have
received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with
the beast.

17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength
unto the beast.

17:14 These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome
them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are
with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.

17:15 And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the
whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.

17:16 And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall
hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat
her flesh, and burn her with fire.

17:17 For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to
agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God
shall be fulfilled.

17:18 And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which
reigneth over the kings of the earth.

18:1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven,
having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.

18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the
great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils,
and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and
hateful bird.

18:3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her
fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication
with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the
abundance of her delicacies.

18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her,
my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive
not of her plagues.

18:5 For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered
her iniquities.

18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double
according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her
double.

18:7 How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so
much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a
queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.

18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning,
and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is
the Lord God who judgeth her.

18:9 And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and
lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when
they shall see the smoke of her burning, 18:10 Standing afar off for
the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon,
that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.

18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her;
for no man buyeth their merchandise any more: 18:12 The merchandise of
gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen,
and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner
vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of
brass, and iron, and marble, 18:13 And cinnamon, and odours, and
ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and
wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves,
and souls of men.

18:14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from
thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from
thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.

18:15 The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her,
shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,
18:16 And saying, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in fine
linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious
stones, and pearls!  18:17 For in one hour so great riches is come to
nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and
sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, 18:18 And cried
when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto
this great city!  18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried,
weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein were
made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness!
for in one hour is she made desolate.

18:20 Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and
prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.

18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and
cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city
Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.

18:22 And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and
trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman,
of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the
sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee; 18:23 And
the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the
voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all
in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy
sorceries were all nations deceived.

18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and
of all that were slain upon the earth.

19:1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in
heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power,
unto the Lord our God: 19:2 For true and righteous are his judgments:
for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with
her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her
hand.

19:3 And again they said, Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever and
ever.

19:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and
worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.

19:5 And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all
ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.

19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the
voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying,
Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.

19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for the
marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.

19:8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen,
clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.

19:9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called
unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are
the true sayings of God.

19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See
thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have
the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the
spirit of prophecy.

19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that
sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he
doth judge and make war.

19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.

19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name
is called The Word of God.

19:14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white
horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

19:15 And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should
smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he
treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.

19:16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING
OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.

19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud
voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come
and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God; 19:18
That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the
flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on
them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and
great.

19:19 And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their
armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the
horse, and against his army.

19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that
wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had
received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image.
These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.

19:21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon
the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls
were filled with their flesh.

20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the
bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.

20:2 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the
Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, 20:3 And cast him
into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him,
that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years
should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.

20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given
unto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the
witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not
worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark
upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned
with Christ a thousand years.

20:5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years
were finished. This is the first resurrection.

20:6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:
on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of
God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.

20:7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed
out of his prison, 20:8 And shall go out to deceive the nations which
are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to gather them
together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.

20:9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the
camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down
from God out of heaven, and devoured them.

20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire
and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be
tormented day and night for ever and ever.

20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from
whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no
place for them.

20:12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the
books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of
life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written
in the books, according to their works.

20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and
hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged
every man according to their works.

20:14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the
second death.

20:15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast
into the lake of fire.

21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and
the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.

21:2 And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God
out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.

21:3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the
tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they
shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their
God.

21:4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there
shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall
there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.

21:5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things
new.

And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.

21:6 And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the
beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the
fountain of the water of life freely.

21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his
God, and he shall be my son.

21:8 But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and
murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all
liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and
brimstone: which is the second death.

21:9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the
seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me,
saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.

21:10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high
mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem,
descending out of heaven from God, 21:11 Having the glory of God: and
her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper
stone, clear as crystal; 21:12 And had a wall great and high, and had
twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written
thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of
Israel: 21:13 On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on
the south three gates; and on the west three gates.

21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the
names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

21:15 And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the
city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.

21:16 And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the
breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand
furlongs.

The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.

21:17 And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four
cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.

21:18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city
was pure gold, like unto clear glass.

21:19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with
all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the
second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;
21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh,
chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a
chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.

21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls: every several gate was
of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were
transparent glass.

21:22 And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the
Lamb are the temple of it.

21:23 And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to
shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the
light thereof.

21:24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light
of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into
it.

21:25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there
shall be no night there.

21:26 And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into
it.

21:27 And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that
defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but
they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.

22:1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal,
proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

22:2 In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the
river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits,
and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for
the healing of the nations.

22:3 And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of
the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him: 22:4 And
they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.

22:5 And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle,
neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they
shall reign for ever and ever.

22:6 And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true: and the
Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants
the things which must shortly be done.

22:7 Behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of
the prophecy of this book.

22:8 And I John saw these things, and heard them. And when I had heard
and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which
shewed me these things.

22:9 Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy
fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which
keep the sayings of this book: worship God.

22:10 And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of
this book: for the time is at hand.

22:11 He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is
filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be
righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.

22:12 And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give
every man according as his work shall be.

22:13 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and
the last.

22:14 Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have
right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city.

22:15 For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and
murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.

22:16 I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in
the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright
and morning star.

22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth
say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let
him take the water of life freely.

22:18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the
prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God
shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: 22:19
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this
prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and
out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.

22:20 He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.
Amen.

Even so, come, Lord Jesus.

22:21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
